What would you like to do today?
I want documents necessary to extend my visa.
I want the necessary documents for the procedure to invite my family to Japan.
I want to pay my taxes.
I need a proof of income.
I would like to discuss the payment of taxes.
I need a proof of tax payment.
When submitting to the Immigration Office, both the proof of income and the proof of tax payment are required.
Tax exempt individuals must have a tax exemption certificate.
Do you have the documents you received from the Immigration Bureau?
Whose certificate is required?
Please see this sample and fill out the application form.
Can I talk on the phone right now with family and friends who can speak Japanese?
Please come to this counter again with someone who understands Japanese.
I will now connect the videophone.
You must go to the 00 city tax office (00 sub-branch office).
What is your relationship with this person?
If someone other than the applicant comes to the counter, a letter of attorney is required.
What year's certificate is required?
Example: Proof of income for the year 2017 proves the income during the year 2016.
Can I be issued a certificate for the most recent fiscal year?
How many sheets do you need?
Please show identification.
You will not be able to proceed without identification.
Where did you live on January 1 of this year?
Your certificate can be obtained at ____________.
If you lived outside of Japan on January 1 of this year, a certificate cannot be issued.
Did you work in the year XX A.D.?
Is there anything that shows the annual income of the person for whom proof is required?
(Tax withholding certificate, pay stubs, etc.)
Are there any other documents?
Please complete this form.
Your income is written.
Citizen and prefectural taxes are 0 yen.
You are delinquent on your taxes.
If you pay your unpaid taxes now, we can issue a tax receipt immediately.
Will you pay your taxes immediately?
After paying taxes at the bank counter, please come back to this counter with the receipt.
After paying your taxes at the General Affairs Section, please come back to this counter with your receipt.
After paying taxes at the XX counter on the XX floor, please come back to this counter with your receipt.
Please show me the receipt.
Since the citizens’ and prefectural taxes are 0 yen, a tax payment certificate cannot be issued.
If the “Amount still in arrears” is equal to the “Amount which is not yet due for payment”, it is not considered to be in arrears.
Your municipal and prefectural taxes are paid by the company you work for to the City of Nagoya after being deducted from your paycheck.
This tax has been paid.
Please pay the fee.
The procedure is over.
Trustee
Address (e.g. of house)
Name of person
Phone number
Seal of the person (who wants the certification)
The person in question (who wants proof)
Please write your name, address, and phone number.
Delegated matter
Please write the name of the proof you need and the (required) number of copies.
Agent
People coming to the counter
Whose proof is required?
People who came to the counter
Spouse (wife or husband)
Parent
Child
Application for support
Application for a pension
Public housing (income declaration)
Loans (capital borrowing)
Child allowance receipt
Submitted by Immigration Bureau
Application for schooling assistance
Application for high school enrollment support and private high school tuition reduction
Scholarship application
Application for special support education schooling incentive and private kindergarten enrollment incentive
Application for specific medical expenses
Visa application
Bid
Submission to public offices (other than bidding)
Guarantor
Application for a license to sell alcoholic beverages
Write the names of your dependent family members.
Relationship
Describe your living situation.
You are a dependent of someone else.
A person who is dependent on you
Student
Name of the school
Being under medical care
Currently unemployed
Please write the name of the person whose proof is needed.
Please write the address of the person for whom proof is required.
Please write your date of birth.
Write your name.
Write your address.
Write your phone number.
Application for tuition fee waiver for universities and other various schools
Application for high-cost medical care benefit payment and limit amount application approval
We will provide you with a proof of 00.
