Support Program for Single Parent Families
For more information, please ask the contact person.
Inquiries will be handled in Japanese.
Receiving Benefits and Pensions
Child Support Allowance, Nagoya City Single Parent Allowance, Aichi Prefecture Orphans Allowance
This subsidy is provided to those who are raising a child under the age of 18 alone due to divorce, being unmarried, death, or other reasons.
*Includes cases where the father or mother is in a certain state of disability.
*If your child is 18 years old, he/she is eligible from birth to March 31.
Inquiries: Protection and Children Section, Branch Office Citizen Welfare Division, Citizen and Children Section, Citizen and Children Division, Ward Office
Child-care allowance
This allowance is provided to those who are raising a child up to the third grade of junior high school.
Inquiries: Protection and Children Section, Branch Office Citizen Welfare Division, Citizen and Children Section, Citizen and Children Division, Ward Office
Basic survivor’s pension
It is paid when a National Pension Plan member or a person who has been a member of the Basic Old-Age Pension Plan for 25 years or more dies and his/her spouse is living with their children under 18 years of age.
*If your child is 18 years old, he/she is eligible from his/her birthday to March 31.
Inquiries: Insurance and Pension Division Administration Section, Ward Office, Insurance Section, Branch Office Citizen Welfare Division
Reducing Financial Burdens
Medical Expense Subsidies for Single Parent Families
The co-payment of medical expenses is subsidized.
Inquiries: Insurance Section, Insurance and Pension Division, Ward Office Insurance Section, Branch Office Citizen Welfare Division
Reduction or exemption of national health insurance premiums
Widows or single parents under the tax law are exempt from paying or pay reduced National Health Insurance premiums.
*Conditions are applicable.
Inquiries: Insurance Section, Insurance and Pension Division, Ward Office, Insurance Section, Branch Office Citizen Welfare Division
Exemption and deferment of national health insurance premiums
Widows or single parents under the tax law are exempted or deferred from paying National Pension Insurance premiums.
Conditions are applicable.
Inquiries: Insurance and Pension Division Administration Section, Ward Office, Insurance Section, Branch Office Citizen Welfare Division
Reduction or exemption of water and sewerage charges
Water and sewerage charges will be reduced for households receiving child support allowance.
*Only if the recipient himself/herself is contracted.
Inquiries: Protection and Children Section, Branch Office Citizen Welfare Division, Citizen and Children Section, Citizen and Children Division, Ward Office
JR commuter pass special discount
Households receiving the child support allowance are eligible for a 30% discount on JR commuter pass if they submit a certificate issued by the ward office/branch office.
*Transit passes are not eligible.
Inquiries: Protection and Children Section, Branch Office Citizen Welfare Division, Citizen and Children Section, Citizen and Children Division, Ward Office
Receiving a Tax Exemption
Those who meet the conditions of the tax law may be eligible for a tax relief program.
In addition, if the conditions are met, the resident tax (municipal and prefectural) may be exempted or reduced.
If you wish to apply, please do not forget to declare it in your year-end adjustment or tax return.
Inquiries: City tax office of your ward
Getting a Loan
Maternal, child and paternal widow welfare loans
Students can borrow for expenses necessary for schooling, acquiring skills, finding a job, moving to a new location, etc.
Inquiries: Protection and Children Section, Branch Office Citizen Welfare Division, Citizen and Children Section, Citizen and Children Division, Ward Office
Finding a Job / Improving your Skills
Post-secondary job training benefit
This benefit is provided for a certain period of time as living expenses for those who study at a training institute in order to obtain qualifications necessary for employment or career change, such as a nurse.
Inquiries: Protection and Children Section, Branch Office Citizen Welfare Division, Citizen and Children Section, Citizen and Children Division, Ward Office
Loan for Promotion of Higher Vocational Training
If you are seeking to acquire a qualification while receiving the benefit mentioned in 10 above, you can borrow the money you need when you enter the school and when you find a job.
Inquiries: Protection and Children Section, Branch Office Citizen Welfare Division, Citizen and Children Section, Citizen and Children Division, Ward Office
Self-Reliance Support Education and Training Benefits
A portion of the tuition fee is subsidized for those who take courses to obtain nursing care or other qualifications.
*Conditions are applicable.
Please consult with us before starting your course.
Inquiries: Protection and Children Section, Branch Office Citizen Welfare Division, Citizen and Children Section, Citizen and Children Division, Ward Office
High School Graduation Level Examination Passing Support Grant
Part of the tuition fee will be subsidized for those who take courses in order to pass the high school equivalency examination.
*Conditions are applicable.
Please consult with us before starting your course.
Inquiries: Protection and Children Section, Branch Office Citizen Welfare Division, Citizen and Children Section, Citizen and Children Division, Ward Office
Employment Assistance Training
We offer workshops to help students acquire skills and knowledge that will be advantageous in finding and changing jobs, such as computers and nursing care.
Inquiries: Protection and Children Section, Branch Office Citizen Welfare Division, Citizen and Children Section, Citizen and Children Division, Ward Office
Application for the sale of cigarettes
The criteria for a permit will be relaxed when applying for the sale of cigarettes.
Inquiries: Financial Section, Financial Department, Tokai Finance Bureau TEL 951-2546
Where to consult for work
Hello Work near you
Some Hello Work offices have interpreters.
See the website.
Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare website
https://www.mhlw.go.jp/content/000592865.pdf
Joinas. Nagoya (Joinas. Nagoya)
We help single-parent families find work.
TEL 252-8824
Finding a Home
Recruitment of tenants for public housing
In addition to the general application process, the municipal and prefectural housing programs also accept applications for single-parent households.
Inquiries: Protection and Children Section, Branch Office Citizen Welfare Division, Citizen and Children Section, Citizen and Children Division, Ward Office
Mother and child living support facility
This is a facility for children under 18 years old who need protection and their mothers.
Inquiries: Protection and Children Section, Branch Office Citizen Welfare Division, Citizen and Children Section, Citizen and Children Division, Ward Office
Private rental housing tenant counseling (by appointment only)
We provide tenant counseling to households with children who wish to move into private rental housing.
Inquiries: Sakae Citizen Service Corner Housing Consultation Corner “Nagoya City Housing Consultation Corner” at 3-5-12 Sakae, Naka-ku, Sakae Mori Underground Mall Minami Yonban-gai South Side TEL 242-4555
Receiving Child Care Assistance
Short-term residential living assistance for children (short stay)
In principle, children are placed in the care of an infant home, children’s home, or foster home for up to one week when it is temporarily difficult to raise a child at home due to a guardian’s illness or other social reasons.
Inquiries: Protection and Children Section, Branch Office Citizen Welfare Division, Citizen and Children Section, Citizen and Children Division, Ward Office
Livelihood Support for Single Parent Families
For single-parent families and widows who need help in their daily lives.
Daily living assistance: A helper visits your home to assist with household chores and nursing care.
Childcare support: Temporary care for children at designated childcare facilities.
Inquiries: Protection and Children Section, Branch Office Citizen Welfare Division, Citizen and Children Section, Citizen and Children Division, Ward Office
Diverse Childcare
If a parent or guardian needs to care for their child due to work or other reasons, daycare centers and other facilities are available.
Holiday care, extended day care, night care, sick child care, and post-sick child care are also available.
Inquiries: Protection and Children Section, Branch Office Citizen Welfare Division, Citizen and Children Section, Citizen and Children Division, Ward Office
Childcare in kindergartens
Temporary childcare services are provided at the kindergartens or certified childcare centers attended by the children.
Inquiries: Each kindergarten, accredited childcare center
Temporary childcare
The child is temporarily taken care of when sudden circumstances make it difficult to care for the child at home, or to reduce the parent’s mental or physical burden due to childcare fatigue.
Inquiries:
Temporary childcare
Citizen and Children Section, Citizen and Children Division, Ward Office
Protection and Children Section, Citizen Welfare Division, Branch Office
Nobi Nobi Childcare Support
Headquarters
TEL 962-5103
Childcare support base
Each childcare support base
Secure funds for children’s education
Schooling aid, etc.
Depending on the type of school your child attends, you will receive assistance for schooling and other expenses.
Inquiries: The kindergarten or school your child attends
Scholarships, etc. (Japan Student Services Organization)
Scholarships and tuition reductions/exemptions are available for students attending universities, junior colleges, etc.
Inquiries: The school your child attends
Japan Student Services Organization website: https://www.jasso.go.jp/
Ensure opportunities for children’s learning and social experiences
Learning support for junior high school students
We hold study sessions tailored to each student's learning level, with the aim of helping students develop study habits and enter high school, etc.
Inquiries: Office of Planning for Children's Future, Children and Youth Bureau TEL 972-3199
Creating a place for children from single-parent families
A place for children from the 5th grade of elementary school to the 3rd grade of junior high school, where they feel free to stop by, chat, do homework, spend time and participate in events!
Inquiries: Office of Planning for Children's Future, Children and Youth Bureau TEL 972-3199
Cultural and Sports Exchange
We hold events where parents can experience the world of sports, music, and other professional activities to encourage interaction between parents and their children and between single parents, and to help them choose their future careers.
Inquiries: Office of Planning for Children's Future, Children and Youth Bureau TEL972-2522
Single Parent Family Rest Home
The fee for lodging facilities such as “Kokumin Shukusha Okuhamanako” and day-trip facilities such as “Legoland” will be subsidized.
Inquiries: Protection and Children Section, Branch Office Citizen Welfare Division, Citizen and Children Section, Citizen and Children Division, Ward Office
Preferential use of city-owned facilities
City facilities such as Higashiyama Zoo and Botanical Garden and the City Science Museum can be used free of charge.
Inquiries: Protection and Children Section, Branch Office Citizen Welfare Division, Citizen and Children Section, Citizen and Children Division, Ward Office
