Parent/guardian
Nagoya City Board of Education
Notification of procedures for continuation of school assistance
(September 2020 - August 2021)
For those who are currently receiving school assistance, the period of receipt is until August 2020.
If you wish to continue receiving assistance from September 2020 to August 2021, please submit the attached “Application for Continuation of School Assistance” to the school your child attends.
Submission Deadline
Submit to school by Wednesday, June 10
If you are unable to submit the application by Wednesday, June 10, please notify the school that you will submit it at a later date.
Continued accreditation will be granted to those who have submitted complete documentation to the school by Thursday, September 24.
Late or incomplete submission of documents will result in continued certification on September 1.
Please check before submitting the form.
[Notes]
If you have more than one child for whom you wish to receive assistance, please apply for each.
Certification will be based on what is being applied for at this time.
If your household situation changes (change of guardian, remarriage, relocation, living with grandparents, etc.) after application, please be sure to contact the school as soon as possible.
If the submitted documents are later found to have been corrected or are incorrect and no longer meet the requirements for accreditation, the accreditation may be withdrawn.
If there is any doubt about the contents of the application, we may ex officio confirm the household situation, income, etc.
Payment details (as of April 2020)
From September to December 2020
Paid on or around October 26
January to March 2021
Paid on or around January 25
From April to August 2021
Paid on or around June 1
School supplies, etc.
1st grade elementary school
4,320 yen
3,240 yen
[Please refer to the “New School Year” section]
2nd to 6th grade of elementary school
5,040 yen
3,780 yen
6,680 yen
1st year junior high school
8,200 yen
6,150 yen
10,690 yen
Second and third years of junior high school
9,000 yen
6,750 yen
11,560 yen
Enrollment fee and deposit
Sixth-year elementary school student
60,000 yen
Paid on or around February 25
Graduation album fee, etc.
6th grade, 3rd grade of junior high school
Provided to students who receive school assistance and purchase graduation albums, etc. as of March 1.
Actual cost
School lunch fee
All grades
Payment is made by the school principal to the meal delivery agency (not directly to the parents).
For middle schools that provide school lunch, parents are reimbursed for the actual amount of food and beverages consumed.
April payment is paid around June 1, March payment around March 31, and other months around the 25th of the following month.
Actual cost
Outdoor activities expenses
5th grade and 2nd grade
Provided to children who receive school assistance and participate in outdoor activities at the time of implementation.
Payment is made after implementation (usually two to three months later).
Actual cost
School excursion fee
6th grade, 3rd grade of junior high school
Provided to students who received school assistance and participated in the school trip at the time of implementation.
Payment is made after implementation (usually two to three months later).
Actual cost
Transportation to and from school
Actual expenses are paid for students who commute by public transportation to elementary schools that are 4 km or more away and junior high schools that are 6 km or more away due to special educational considerations (for students who commute to special needs classes, the distance to school is not limited).
Payment months are July, October, and January.
Medical expenses for school sickness
Payment by the school principal to the medical facility for treatment of school illnesses treated upon the instructions of the school (no payment is made directly to the parent/guardian).
School Life Management Guidance Document Expense
All grades
Provides for the cost of a written school management chart prepared by a physician regarding food allergies and heart and kidney-related conditions.
Medical receipts required.
April and May payments are paid on or around June 25, and other months are paid on or around the 25th of the following month.
Actual cost (limit 3,000 yen)
*For households receiving public assistance, only school trip expenses and medical expenses for school illnesses are covered by the School Assistance.
Other expenses are covered by public assistance and are paid by the social welfare office (ward office civil welfare and children's division).
*School diseases are trachoma, conjunctivitis, otitis media, chronic sinusitis, dental caries, adenoids, parasitic diseases, and certain skin diseases.
Please be sure to receive a "statement of treatment" or other documentation from the school and bring it to the medical institution prior to treatment.
If you have a child medical card or single-parent family medical card, those will be given priority.
*Payment dates may shift slightly.
Who is Eligible for School Assistance and What Documents are Required?
If the applicant’s name and seal are affixed to the “Consent” column of the application form for continuation of school assistance, the Board of Education will confirm the information necessary for certification of continuation, so no accompanying documents (child support allowance certificate, certificate of citizenship tax, prefectural tax certificate, etc.) are required.
However, if the Board of Education is unable to obtain the necessary information as a result of checking, for example, if the applicant moved to Nagoya City on or after January 2, 2020, or if the applicant has not declared his/her income, the applicant will be required to submit the necessary documents separately.
If a person is included in the household but has a different address due to living alone for work, the Board of Education will not be able to obtain the required information, so the applicant will be required to submit the necessary documents separately.
If the name and seal are not affixed in the “Consent” column, please attach the required documents for each of the following categories.
Application Items
Attachments (e.g., if you do not sign and seal in the “”Consent” column)
Where certificates are issued
1
Persons in need of public assistance as defined in the Public Assistance Law
Unnecessary
2
Those whose public assistance has been suspended or abolished since April 2, 2019
Not required (in principle)
*Not applicable if discontinued due to a change in household (e.g., remarriage).
3
Those who were provided with child support allowance
Certificate of Child Support Allowance
*A copy of the page with the seal of the Director of the Social Welfare Office is required.
*The period of receipt must be after November 2019.
*The Child Allowance, Single Parent Family Allowance, Aichi Orphans Allowance, and Special Child Support Allowance are not applicable.
Ward Office Civil Affairs and Children Division
Branch Office Ward Citizen Welfare Division
(Social Welfare Office)
4
For those who are financially challenged
Certificate of Citizen’s Tax and Prefectural Resident’s Tax [for the fiscal year of 2020 (income for the first year of 2019)] (photocopies acceptable)
*Needed for all members of the household (excluding dependents under the income tax law and high school students and younger).
Tax counter of municipal tax office/mini branch office, ward office/branch office
The applicant for this item is eligible if the total income of all household members for the year 2019 is less than or equal to the income thresholds below.
Number of household members
Two-person household
Three-person household
Four-person household
Five-person household
Six-person household
Income standard amount
2,469,000 yen
2,769,000 yen
3,146,000 yen
3,726,000 yen
4,097,000 yen
(Approximate income)
(3.76 million yen)
(4.14 million yen)
(4.6 million yen)
(5.33 million yen)
(5.79 million yen)
For households of seven or more persons, the income standard for a household of six persons plus ¥489,000 for each additional person.
The income threshold in the upper row is the certification standard.
The amount in parentheses in the lower row ( ) is the approximate amount of income for salaried employees.
In the case of a drastic decrease in income due to unavoidable circumstances such as injury, illness, or unemployment (dismissal, bankruptcy) of the person whose livelihood depends on it, or in the case of a drastic decrease in income due to the effects of coronavirus infection, consideration may be given even if income exceeds the standard amount.
Please contact the school.
(Retirement at retirement age or for personal reasons is not applicable.)
Note 1: “Household” in the case of school assistance refers to all persons living in the same house.
Those who live in the same house are considered to be in the same household, even if they have separate livelihoods or residency records, such as grandparents.
A person who does not live in the same house but maintains the livelihood of the household, e.g., because he/she is living alone for work, is also included in the same household.
All members of the same household must be listed in the household status section of the application.
Note 2: All members of the household must fall under the same category (except for application item 3).
Other
The certification and payment for the period from April to August 2021 are based on the assumption that the budget for fiscal year 2021 is approved.
Please keep in mind that, depending on the circumstances, the certification and payment may not be granted as described in this guide.
The period of assistance for children graduating from junior high school this year is until March 2021.
In the event of non-payment of school levies that are covered by school assistance, the school may be paid even if an application for direct debit has been made.
Based on the consent, the Board of Education may inspect and confirm the necessary information (basic resident register information, public assistance information, child support allowance information, and income information) for the examination of eligibility for school assistance, and if there is any doubt about the content of the application, the circumstances may be confirmed.
*If you have any questions, please contact the Nagoya City Board of Education Academic Affairs Division (TEL 972-3217 FAX 972-4175) or the school you attend.
