2021 Month Day
○○○○ City of ○○○○ Dear person in charge
*Los Angeles City, Sydney City, Turin City, Mexico City, Lance City, Nanjing City
Dear Sir/Madam
We would like to express our sincere appreciation for your cooperation and support in collecting and sending the works for the Nagoya City Board of Education’s “Sister and Friendship Cities Children’s Calligraphy and Painting Exhibition”.
Last year, the “42nd Sister and Friendship Cities Children’s Calligraphy and Painting Exhibition” was held at the Nagoya City Museum from November 18 to 23, 2020.
The exhibition featured 3,098 paintings, 33 three-dimensional works, and 2,012 pieces of calligraphy selected from 374 elementary and junior high schools in Nagoya, along with works by children from sister and friendship cities.
The event was a great success, with 25,078 visitors.
The works of the children from sister and friendship cities were full of individuality and had a different coloring and atmosphere from those of the children from Nagoya City.
Although it is very late, we would be very grateful if you could use a postcard that we will send to your city as a commemorative gift, featuring the works of Nagoya children who participated in the exhibition and selected works from our sister and friendship cities.
Also this year, as part of the sister and friendship city program, the “43rd Sister and Friendship Cities Children’s Calligraphy and Painting Exhibition” will be held from November 17 to 21, 2021, and we are planning to exhibit works submitted from each of the sister and friendship cities of our city.
Therefore, we would like to ask you to send us 50 paintings and other two-dimensional works (54 cm x 39 cm or less) by September 1, 2021, if possible, from children in your city, although we are very sorry to ask you to do so amidst various issues such as measures to prevent the spread of coronavirus.
Please also include a list of the names of the authors, their ages, and the name of each work.
We will send you the form in Excel as an attachment to your e-mail. After filling out the form, please send it back to us by attached e-mail.
Please note that the works sent to us will not be returned as in the case of other sister and friendship cities, as they will be used as school education materials in our city after the exhibition is over.
We hope you will find it useful, as our city will be sending the works of Nagoya children to your city at this time next year.
We believe that it is appropriate for the purpose of promoting mutual understanding and deepening friendship between our two cities that children’s works sent from our sister and friendship cities are widely appreciated by the citizens of both cities.
We appreciate your continued cooperation.
Yours truly
Nagoya City Board of Education
Head of Guidance Office ○ ○ ○ ○ ○
(Signature)
