For single parent families
Problem Consultation Form
Do you have any problems at work, or while raising children, living, etc.?
At ward offices and branch offices, various counselors are available to work with you and help you solve your problems and concerns.
We are open to any kind of trivial information.
Why don't you talk to a counselor first?
If necessary, we can cooperate with other consultation services, etc.
Please let us know your problems and what you would like to discuss.
Please submit this consultation form to the ward office/branch office together with the enclosed status report.
Please note that the information written in the consultation form will not be used as material for determining the payment of child support allowance, etc.
Confidentiality will be kept strictly maintained.
Do you have any of the following that you need help or advice with?
Please circle all applicable items in parentheses (multiple responses allowed).
If you have no particular problems, please circle “2 Do not wish to” in Q4.
Work/income related
I want to find a job.
I know I need to work, but I can't muster the energy to look for it.
Currently working, but would like to work under better conditions.
Struggling with workplace relationships.
I'm looking to get certified.
Other (please specify).
Health and lifestyle matters
Not in good physical condition.
Mentally unstable at times.
I can't get around to doing household chores, etc.
I have a family relationship problem.
I'm having trouble with my housing.
I want to review my household budget.
I'm having trouble getting child support.
I'm having trouble paying off my debt.
Having trouble with language and communication.
Other (please specify).
Child-related matters
I have concerns about raising my child.
I feel burdened with childcare.
My child has a chronic illness or disability and I am anxious about it.
My child can't keep up with the schoolwork.
They don't want to go to school.
They tend to be reclusive.
Parent and child don't talk much and don't know how the child is feeling.
I am concerned about my child's future.
I'm having trouble paying for higher education.
Other (please specify).
At the ward office and branch offices, we are looking for ways to do something together to solve your problems and concerns.
Would you like to consult with a consultant?
I wish to
2 Do not wish to (Reason:                           )
*If you have already consulted with other organizations, please let us know where you consulted.
(Contact for consultation:                          )
≪Please fill in your contact information.
Furigana (kana to indicate pronunciation)
Name
Phone number
Easy time to answer the phone, such as during lunch break at work
(weekdays from 10:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.)
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, anytime
: ~ :
*Please understand that depending on the information you provide, the ward office or branch office may contact you regardless of whether or not you wish to do so.
*Depending on the nature of the consultation, we may access information related to child support allowance or make inquiries to related organizations.
Fill in ward office/branch office
*Don't write anything.
(Certificate number:                )
