Important Notice
Nagoya City
Special Benefit for Living Assistance for Households Raising Children
New benefits will be provided to support families raising children!
Person eligible for benefits
Those who apply for both (1) and (2) (*Excluding those who received benefits for single-parent households)
Parents raising a child under 18 years old (under 20 years old in the case of a disabled child) as of March 31, 2021 (*Newborns born before the end of February 2022 are also eligible.)
Those who are exempt from resident tax (per capita levy) for the fiscal year 2021
or
Those whose income has suddenly changed since January 1, 2021 and who are now exempt from resident tax.
Allowance
50,000 yen per child
In some cases, an application is not required for payment, while in others, an application is required.
Please be sure to check the payment procedures on the reverse side of this page.
If duplicate payments are found to be received for the same child, a refund must be made.
*For more information on how to apply or to have application documents sent to you, please call
Where to submit applications and inquiries
Nagoya City Hall, “Special Benefit for Living Assistance for Households Raising Children (for households other than single-parent households)” (Call Center)
(6F Daiichi Fuji Building, 35-16 Daikan-cho, Higashi-ku, Nagoya, Aichi 461-8799, Japan)
Phone: 052-979-2415
Fax 052-933-1118
Reception hours: 9:00 to 17:30
Open every day from July 1 to September 30, including Saturdays, Sundays and holidays.
Benefit Payment Procedures
Recipients of child allowance or special child support allowance for April 2021 who are exempt from resident tax
Benefits are received without the need to apply.
After the information on the benefit is sent out, it will be transferred to the account to which the child allowance or special child support allowance is paid in mid-July (around the 19th).
Those who reside in municipalities outside Nagoya as of January 1, 2021 will receive their payment in late July (around the 29th).
New recipients of child allowance, such as those who are raising a child born between April 2, 2021 and February 28, 2022, and who are exempt from residential taxation.
Benefits are received without the need to apply.
After the information on the benefits is sent out, we plan to transfer the funds to the account to which the child allowance is paid in due course in late July or later.
Those who are not listed above (e.g.. Those who are only raising high school students, or whose income has suddenly changed)
To receive benefits, you must apply for them.
(Application deadline: Postmarked effective February 28, 2022)
Please fill out the application form and other necessary information and send it by mail together with the required documents to the application submission address indicated on the front page.
For those who meet the requirements for the payment of benefits, we will confirm the details of the application and transfer the funds to the designated account.
If you would like to receive an application form or other documents, please contact us at the contact information listed on the front page.
(It can also be downloaded from the official Nagoya City website.)
Persons eligible for benefits
Application Procedures for Benefits
Please submit the application documents by mail to the person in charge of the “Special Benefit for Living Assistance for Households Raising Children (for households other than single-parent households)”.
Transfer to designated account
After confirming that the submitted application documents meet the requirements for the payment of benefits, the funds will be transferred.
Nagoya City
Beware of “Bank transfer scams” and “Fraudulent use of personal information” concerning the “Special Benefit for Living Assistance for Households Raising Children”.
If you receive a suspicious phone call or mail at your home or workplace from a person claiming to be an employee of the prefectural or municipal government or the Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare, please contact your local municipal government, the nearest police station, or the dedicated police consultation line (#9110).
