Are you okay with that sound?
What is the noise of daily life?
Noise in daily life is the sound generated by household life, such as "the sound of the TV," "the sound of a door opening and closing," "the sound of a piano," and so on.
Noise from daily life is a sound that occurs as a result of daily living, so it is not possible to avoid emitting it altogether.
Sound is perceived differently by different people.
Sounds that are "unavoidable" or "pleasant to me" in daily life may be perceived as "noisy" or "unpleasant" by those around me. They may be perceived as "noisy" or "unpleasant" by those around them.
It is important to pay attention to the sounds you make on a daily basis, and to take care not to make unnecessary noises and to devise ways to reduce the volume of sound.
If you have a good relationship with your neighbors, such as by greeting them on a daily basis, noise from daily life may be relatively unproblematic.
â
Sound from audio equipment, etc. (stereo, TV, piano, etc.)
Pay attention to the time of use, for example, avoid early morning and late night.
Take care to prevent sound from leaking outside by closing windows, adjusting volume, and using headphones.
Use soundproofed sashes or other soundproofing to prevent sound from leaking outside.
Noise from home appliances, residential equipment, etc. (air conditioners, vacuum cleaners, etc.)
When installing outdoor air conditioners and other equipment, choose a location as far away from neighboring houses as possible, and if necessary, use block walls or other means to soundproof the building.
When buying appliances and other items, choose those that make little noise.
Avoid early morning and late night use as much as possible.
Early morning and nighttime sounds (e.g., idling of cars and motorcycles)
Do not idle or idle your car or motorcycle early in the morning or late at night.
Avoid doing cleaning and laundry early in the morning or late at night.
Other sounds (e.g., doors and windows opening and closing)
Be careful not to make loud noises when opening and closing doors and windows.
Walk quietly indoors.
It is a big echo on the floor below.
Issued by: Air Quality Division, Regional Environment Department, Nagoya City Environment Bureau
Phone: 972-2674
FAX: 972-4155
