Notice of Special Education School Enrollment Incentive Fee for Academic Year 2020
Students with disabilities enrolled in special-needs classes at Nagoya municipal elementary and junior high schools are eligible to use the "Special Support Education Schooling Incentive Fee" system, which provides school supplies, school lunches, and other expenses based on household income.
target group
Applicable to any of the following 1 to 3
Students in special needs classes
Students in a classroom instruction class (other than those falling under 3.
(Only transportation expenses (commuting expenses) will be paid.)
*Those attending prefectural special needs schools are also eligible.
Students in regular classrooms (including day classes) Students with a disability as defined in Article 22-3 of the School Education Law Enforcement Ordinance (see reverse side for details).
Expenses to be subsidized
Classification
Elementary School
Middle School
school lunch fee
Actual cost × 1/2
Actual cost × 1/2
Transportation (commuting expenses)
Actual cost (Note 1)
Actual cost (Note 1)
Exchange study transportation fee
Actual cost (Note 1)
Actual cost (Note 1)
school excursion fee
Actual cost x 1/2 (Maximum 10,790 yen)
Actual cost x 1/2 (Maximum 28,860 yen)
Off-campus activity fees (those involving overnight stays)
Actual cost x 1/2 (Maximum 3,422 yen)
Actual cost x 1/2 (Maximum 3,540 yen)
Off-campus activity fee (not involving overnight stay)
800 Yen
1,155 yen
Purchase of school supplies
Actual cost x 1/2 (Note 2) (Maximum 5,820 yen)
Actual cost x 1/2 (Note 2) (Maximum 11,370 yen)
Purchase of school and school supplies for newly enrolled students (1st grade only)
Actual cost x 1/2 (Note 2) (Maximum 25,555 yen) (Note 3)
Actual cost x 1/2 (Note 2) (Maximum 28,990 yen) (Note 3)
(Note 1) For (2) and (3), if the certification stage is Stage III, the amount is "actual cost x 1/2".
(Note 2) Items (7) and (8) will be paid based on actual purchases, and receipts (address, name of item, and amount) are required.
(7) is for purchases made between February 2020 and January 2021, and (8) is for purchases made by April 2020.
However, if school supplies and commuting supplies necessary for entering school in (8) were purchased after April due to the temporary closure caused by the new coronavirus infection, receipts up to the end of June will be covered).
(Note 3) The maximum amount has increased since last year.
Calculation Criteria and Subsidy Expenses for the Certification Phase
The certification stage is determined based on the ratio of household income to the public assistance standard demand, and the expenses and amount of subsidy differ depending on the certification stage.
The certification stage is determined on an annual basis.
Authorization stage
Basis of calculation
Expenses to be subsidized
I
Income less than 1.5 times demand
II
Income is more than 1.5 times but less than 2.5 times the amount of demand
(i) to (viii)
III.
Income is more than 2.5 times the amount of demand
(2), (3)
Guideline for Steps I and II (income amount less than 2.5 times the public assistance standard demand amount)
Approximately the following income amounts.
The amount of income varies depending on the age structure and other factors, even for the same number of household members.
number of people in the household
two-person household
Three-person household
Four-person household
Five-person household
6-person household
Household Income
4,634,000 yen
6,044,000 yen
7,119,000 yen
7,960,000 yen
9,219,000 yen
(Annual income of salaried employees)
(7,292,000 yen)
(9,055,000 yen)
(10,375,000 yen)
(11,364,000 yen)
(12,845,000 yen)
In addition to the "Special Support Education Schooling Incentive Fee" system, there is a "Schooling Assistance" system that provides financial assistance for school lunches and school supplies to those in need.
It is not possible to receive the same payment of schooling aid and special-needs education schooling incentive fee at the same time.
Since school aid is more generous, we recommend that those who are eligible for school aid choose to receive it.
However, the transportation fee for exchange study (3) is only covered by the Special Support Education Schooling Incentive Fee, so an application is required.
(2) Students in regular classrooms (including day classes) (3) Criteria, etc., for determining which of the children in the class (including day-care centers) corresponds to the level of disability prescribed in Article 22-3 of the School Education Law Enforcement Ordinance (3) of the subject on the front side.
classification
Degree of disability (standard under Article 22-3 of the School Education Law Enforcement Order)
Judgment method
necessary documents
visually impaired person
Those whose corrected visual acuity in both eyes is generally less than 0.3, or those with a severe visual impairment other than visual acuity, such that normal visual recognition of letters, figures, etc. is impossible or extremely difficult* even with the use of a magnifying glass, etc.
The student must require a considerable amount of time for visual recognition of ordinary letters, figures, etc., and must require special support and consideration in the teaching of all subjects, etc., and must require systematic and continuous special instruction to improve and overcome his/her disability.
Those with a physical disability certificate grade 2 or higher or with a physical disability certificate grade 3 to 6 who are diagnosed by a physician as meeting the criteria on the left.
Copy of physical disability certificate
Medical certificate (according to the form designated by the City of Nagoya)
(② is required only for those with physical disability certificate grades 3-6)
deaf person
Those whose hearing level in both ears is approximately 60 decibels or higher and for whom it is impossible or extremely difficult to understand normal speech even with the use of hearing aids, cochlear implants, etc.
mentally-handicapped person
Those with intellectual developmental delay to the extent that they have difficulty communicating with others and require frequent assistance in daily living.
Those with intellectual developmental delay not reaching the level of 1, who have significant difficulty in adapting to social life.
Those with an A rehabilitation rating of A on the Patronage Handbook
A copy of the Patronage Handbook
physically handicapped person
Those whose physical disability is such that even with the use of prosthetic devices, it is impossible or difficult for them to perform basic activities such as walking*, eating, dressing, undressing, and removing clothing, as well as basic activities for learning such as drawing.
Those whose physical disability does not reach the degree of 1, but who require constant medical observation and guidance (constant medical observation within a specific period of time and guidance and training on each and every movement and activity of daily life from waking up to going to bed).
Walking does not include wheelchair use.
Those with a physical disability certificate grade 2 or higher or with a physical disability certificate grade 3 to 6 who are diagnosed by a physician as meeting the criteria on the left.
Copy of physical disability certificate
Medical certificate (according to the form designated by the City of Nagoya)
(② is required only for those with physical disability certificate grades 3-6)
The sick and the weak
Chronic respiratory disease, renal disease and neurological disease, malignant neoplasm and other disease conditions to the extent that they require continuous medical care*1 or living restrictions*2.
Physical frailty to the extent that the condition continues and requires lifestyle restrictions*2.
1 Diagnosis and treatment centered on physicians.
It does not include routine medication, self-injection, etc.
2 The disease significantly limits the quality or quantity of exercise, daily activities (walking, bathing, reading, learning, etc.), or diet.
Those diagnosed by a physician as meeting the criteria on the left.
Medical certificate (according to the form designated by the City of Nagoya)
For those with multiple impairments, the most severe impairment will be considered.
Procedure
For students in special-needs classes and day classes, application information will be provided around early June.
If you wish to receive benefits for other students, please notify the school.
If you need a doctor's note, please pick up the necessary documents at the school and bring them to the medical institution to request a medical certificate.
For more information, please contact your school or the Nagoya City Board of Education, School Affairs Section (℡972-3217).
Nagoya City Board of Education R2.5
