For Parents with Children
School Enrollment Guide for Foreigners
~What is a school like in Japan? ～What is a Japanese school like?
[About Japanese elementary and junior high schools]
Foreign children are accepted free of charge in the same manner as Japanese children, and are guaranteed the same educational opportunities as Japanese children.
Students may attend Nagoya City elementary and junior high schools as determined by their place of residence.
Duration of enrollment in elementary and junior high school
In Japan, students can enter elementary school from the first April after the age of six and receive six years of education.
Upon graduation from elementary school, students may enter junior high school, where they receive three years of education.
Many students who graduate from junior high school go on to higher education.
Schools of higher education include high schools, special training schools (general and advanced courses), and technical colleges.
Some also find employment after graduating from junior high school.
Cost sharing by parents/guardians
Tuition for public elementary and junior high schools is free.
In addition, textbooks for elementary and junior high schools are distributed free of charge.
Some expenses, such as school lunch and school supplies, are to be paid by parents.
About Schooling Assistance
The Schooling Expense Assistance Program provides assistance with school lunch and other expenses to those who have difficulty sending their children to elementary and junior high schools due to financial difficulties.
Health Examination
It is held every year at the school I attend.
Children who have completed the procedures to enter Nagoya City Elementary School in the following April will receive a school physical examination at the elementary school from October to November before entering the school.
You will be notified of the schedule, etc. at a later date by the elementary school to which you applied for admission, so please be sure to see the school.
[Post-enrollment support
Nagoya City has a Japanese Language Education Consultation Center for those who need advice on school and study matters.
If you would like to know more about the school, or if you have any problems, such as needing an interpreter, please feel free to contact us.
In addition, we provide a safe and comfortable learning environment, including classrooms for learning elementary Japanese (daily conversation, etc.) and Japanese required for learning academic subjects.
If you wish to enter one of these classrooms, please consult with the teacher at the school where you are enrolled.
Contact information for inquiries
About the Schooling Assistance System
School Board, Academic Affairs Division, School Aid Section
Phone number 052-972-3217
Admission Procedures
Please inquire at the Citizen Section of your ward office or branch office.
About school life and learning Japanese after entering school
Center for Japanese Language Education
Address: Nagoya City Education Center 3F, 1-1-4 Izumi, Higashi-ku, Nagoya 461-0001, Japan
Phone number 052-961-0418
