Guide to the New Coronavirus Vaccination Certificate
This certificate will be issued to those who have been inoculated with the new coronavirus vaccine and who, due to overseas travel or other circumstances, require documentation to prove that they have been inoculated separately from the certificate of inoculation.
For the time being, this vaccination certificate is limited to international travel.
In Japan, even without this certificate, the fact of vaccination can be verified with an inoculation certificate.
How to apply
Only applications by mail are accepted.
No fee is charged for the issuance of certificates, except for postage for application and delivery.
*If you will be traveling in the near future and cannot make it in time to receive a certificate by mail, please contact the call center.
Flow of Certificate Application
Send the required documents to the "0 Application Form Address" below by mail.
(All submitted documents will not be returned.)
At the City Hall, confirm the contents of the documents.
The certificate will be sent back from City Hall.
However, if there are any omissions in the application documents, we will confirm them by phone or other means before issuing the certificate.
It also takes a few days for the application to be mailed, so please apply well in advance.
Send applications to
3-1-1 San-no-Maru, Naka-ku, Nagoya, Aichi 460-8508, Japan
Vaccination Certificate Section, Office of New Coronavirus Infectious Disease Control, Health and Welfare Bureau, Nagoya City Hall
necessary documents
Required Documents
Application form (downloadable from the official Nagoya City website)
Copy of passport (valid as of the date of travel)
A copy of the coupon (be sure to copy the vaccination coupon number portion)*1
A copy of the vaccination certificate or vaccination record (a copy of the vaccination certificate is not required if it is included in the copy of the coupon)
Self-addressed, stamped envelope (be sure to include your name and address for return postage)
A copy of an identification document that confirms the return address (My number card, driver's license, a copy of various health insurance cards, etc.)*2
If the coupon is missing due to loss, etc., or if the seal on the vaccination coupon number has been removed, please submit a document that confirms your my number (personal number card, notification card, copy of resident card with my number, etc.).
If none of the above is available, please submit a copy of a document showing the address where the applicant is registered as a resident at the time of inoculation (if the applicant has moved, submit a copy of a certificate of residence showing the applicant's previous address, etc.).
If you enclose a copy of your health insurance card as an identification document, please black out the symbol/number and the insurer number.
Documents required in certain cases
If the passport has a maiden name, alias, or alias, a copy of an identification document that can be verified (my number card with maiden name, driver's license, family register, copy of residence card, etc.)
If the request is made by a proxy, a letter of attorney signed by the principal
About the return envelope (stamped and addressed with return postage stamp)
As a rule, the return address is the applicant's address.
Envelope size is not specified.
For details on postal charges, please refer to the website of Japan Post Co.
Please do not forget to affix the stamps as we will not be able to send the form if there are insufficient stamps.
If you wish express delivery, please affix a stamp for express delivery and write "express delivery" in red on the envelope.
For inquiries, please contact
Inquiries about vaccination certificates
Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare New Corona Vaccine Call Center
Phone number: 0120-761-770 (toll free)
Hours: 9:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. (also available on Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays)
Inquiries about Vaccination Certificate Issuance Procedures
Nagoya New Coronavirus Vaccine Call Center
Phone number: 050-3135-2252
Hours: 9:00 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. (weekdays only)
For more information, please visit the official Nagoya City website.
