Support System for Single-Parent Families
Please make an inquiry for details.
We respond to inquiries in Japanese.
Receive an allowance or pension
Child Rearing Allowance / Nagoya Single-Parent Family Allowance / Aichi Prefecture Orphan Allowance
It is paid when you are raising a child who is 18 years old or younger by yourself because of divorce, being unmarried, or death.
* Including cases where the father or mother is in a certain state of disability.
* If your child is 18 years old, they are eligible from their birthday to March 31st.
Inquiries: Ward Office Public Welfare and Child Division, Public Welfare and Child Section, Branch Office Civil Welfare Division, Protection and Child Section
Child allowance
It will be paid if you are raising a child up to the third year of junior high school.
Inquiries: Ward Office Public Welfare and Child Division, Public Welfare and Child Section, Branch Office Civil Welfare Division, Protection and Child Section
Survivors' basic pension
It is paid when a national pension policyholder or a person who has been a member of the old-age basic pension for more than 25 years dies and his or her spouse lives with a child under 18 years old.
* If your child is 18 years old, they are eligible from their birthday to March 31st.
Inquiries: Ward Office Health Insurance and Pension Division, Management Section, Branch Office Civil Welfare Division, Health Insurance Section
To reduce the economic burden
Medical expense assistance for single-parent households
Out-of-pocket medical expenses for medical expenses will be subsidized.
Inquiries: Ward Office Health Insurance and Pension Division, Health Insurance Section, Branch Office Civil Welfare Division, Health Insurance Section
Reduction and exemption of national health insurance premiums
If you are a widow or a single parent under the tax law, the National Health Insurance fee will be reduced or exempted.
* There are conditions.
Inquiries: Ward Office Health Insurance and Pension Division, Health Insurance Section, Branch Office Civil Welfare Division, Health Insurance Section
Exemption and postponement of national health insurance premiums
If you are a widow or a single parent under the tax law, you will be exempted from or granted a grace period for the national pension premiums.
There are conditions.
Inquiries: Ward Office Health Insurance and Pension Division, Management Section, Branch Office Civil Welfare Division, Health Insurance Section
Reduction and exemption of water and sewage charges
The fee for the water and sewage system will be reduced for the households receiving the child rearing allowance.
* It is limited to the case where the recipient themself has a contract.
Inquiries: Ward Office Public Welfare and Child Division, Public Welfare and Child Section, Branch Office Civil Welfare Division, Protection and Child Section
JR commuter pass special discount
Households receiving child rearing allowance receive thirty percent off when they submit certificates issued by ward offices and branches and buy a JR commuter pass.
* Student commuter pass is not eligible.
Inquiries: Ward Office Public Welfare and Child Division, Public Welfare and Child Section, Branch Office Civil Welfare Division, Protection and Child Section
To receive tax relief
If you meet the conditions under the tax law, you can apply for the tax reduction system.
In addition, those who meet the conditions may be exempt from resident tax (municipal and prefectural inhabitants tax).
If you want to apply for it, please don't forget to file it at the year-end adjustment or Final Income Tax Return.
Inquiries: City Tax Office in your ward
To receive loans
Welfare Fund Loan for Mothers, Fathers, and Widows
You can borrow the necessary expenses for studying at school, acquiring skills, getting a job, moving, and so on.
Inquiries: Ward Office Public Welfare and Child Division, Public Welfare and Child Section, Branch Office Civil Welfare Division, Protection and Child Section
Looking for jobs and improving skills
Benefits to Promote Advanced Skills Training
It is paid as living expenses for a certain period of time when a person studies at a training institution in order to obtain a qualification necessary for employment or career change, such as a nurse.
Inquiries: Ward Office Public Welfare and Child Division, Public Welfare and Child Section, Branch Office Civil Welfare Division, Protection and Child Section
Loans for Promotion of Higher Vocational Training
If you aim to acquire qualifications while receiving the benefits in item (x) above, you can borrow money necessary for entering school and getting a job.
Inquiries: Ward Office Public Welfare and Child Division, Public Welfare and Child Section, Branch Office Civil Welfare Division, Protection and Child Section
Independence Support Training and Education Benefits
If you take a course to obtain a qualification for nursing care, etc., a part of the course fee will be subsidized.
* There are conditions.
Please consult before starting the course.
Inquiries: Ward Office Public Welfare and Child Division, Public Welfare and Child Section, Branch Office Civil Welfare Division, Protection and Child Section
Support Benefits for Passing the High School Graduation Certificate Examination
If you take a course to pass the High School Graduation Certificate Examination, a part of the course fee will be subsidized.
* There are conditions.
Please consult before starting the course.
Inquiries: Ward Office Public Welfare and Child Division, Public Welfare and Child Section, Branch Office Civil Welfare Division, Protection and Child Section
Employment support seminars
Training sessions are held to help employees acquire the skills and knowledge necessary for employment and career change, such as personal computers and nursing care.
Inquiries: Ward Office Public Welfare and Child Division, Public Welfare and Child Section, Branch Office Civil Welfare Division, Protection and Child Section
Application for the sale of tobacco
When you apply for selling cigarettes, the criteria for permission will be relaxed.
Inquiries: Financial Affairs Division, Financial Affairs Department, Tokai Local Finance Bureau Tel: 951-2546
Where to consult about work
Hello Work near you
There are also Hello Works that have interpreters.
Please look at the homepage.
Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare homepage
https://www.mhlw.go.jp/content/000592865.pdf
Joinas.Nagoya
We will help single-parent families to find a job.
TEL 252-8824
Look for a place to live
Recruitment for public housing
In municipal housing and prefectural housing, in addition to general recruitment, recruitment for single-parent families is conducted.
Inquiries: Ward Office Public Welfare and Child Division, Public Welfare and Child Section, Branch Office Civil Welfare Division, Protection and Child Section
Maternal and Child Living Support Facilities
It is a facility where children under 18 years old who need protection and their mothers are admitted.
Inquiries: Ward Office Public Welfare and Child Division, Public Welfare and Child Section, Branch Office Civil Welfare Division, Protection and Child Section
Private rental housing occupancy consultation (reservation required)
We provide housing consultation to families with children who want to move into private rental housing.
Inquiries: Sakae Civil Service Corner Residential Counter: 3-5-12 Sakae, Naka-ku, Sakisakae Forest Underground Mall South Fourth Avenue South, Tel: 242-4555
Receive support for raising children
Short-Term Admission Living Support for Children (Short Stay)
In cases where it is temporarily difficult to raise children at home due to social reasons such as the guardian's illness, the child will be taken care of in an infant home, children’s nursing home or foster home for up to one week in principle.
Inquiries: Ward Office Public Welfare and Child Division, Public Welfare and Child Section, Branch Office Civil Welfare Division, Protection and Child Section
Life Support for Single-Parent Families
For single-parent families and widows who are having trouble with their daily lives.
Life support: A helper will visit your home and help you with housework and nursing care.
Child Care Support: Children are temporarily taken care of at a designated childcare facility.
Inquiries: Ward Office Public Welfare and Child Division, Public Welfare and Child Section, Branch Office Civil Welfare Division, Protection and Child Section
Diverse child care
If childcare is required for reasons such as the guardian’s job, you can use a day-care center.
There are also Holiday Day Care, Extended Child Care, Night Child Care, Day Care for Sick Children and Day Care after Children Are Sick
Inquiries: Ward Office Public Welfare and Child Division, Public Welfare and Child Section, Branch Office Civil Welfare Division, Protection and Child Section
After-hours childcare at kindergartens
Temporary Child Care is provided at the kindergarten or the center for early childhood education and care.
Inquiries: Center for Early Childhood Education and Care
Temporary custody
We take care of children temporarily in order to reduce the burden on guardian’s mind and body due to childcare fatigue or when it becomes temporarily difficult to take care of children at home due to sudden circumstances.
Inquiries:
Temporary custody
Ward Office Public Welfare and Child Division, Public Welfare and Child Section
Branch Office Civil Welfare Division, Protection and Child Section
Nobinobi Kosodate Support
Head office
TEL962-5103
Childcare support base
Child-rearing support bases
To secure funds for children's education
School expense support, etc.
Depending on the type of school your child goes to, expenses for attending school and so on are supported.
Inquiries: Kindergarten or school your child goes to
Scholarships (Japan Student Services Organization)
There are grant-type scholarships and tuition reduction and exemption for those who attend universities and junior colleges.
Inquiries: The school your child goes to
Japan Student Services Organization Website: https://www.jasso.go.jp/
Ensuring opportunities for children to learn and experience society
Learning support for junior high school students
Learning sessions are held according to each student's level of learning, with the aim of acquiring learning habits and advancing to high school.
Inquiries: Planning Office for the Future of Children, Department of Children and Youth (TEL: 972-3199)
Creating spaces for children in single-parent families
For children from the 5th grade of elementary school to the 3rd grade of junior high school, we have a place where they can casually drop in, chat, do their homework, relax and participate in events.
Inquiries: Planning Office for the Future of Children, Department of Children and Youth (TEL: 972-3199)
Cultural and sports exchanges
We hold events where parents and children and single parents can interact with each other and experience the professional world of sports and music to help them make career choices in the future.
Inquiries: Planning Office for the Future of Children, Department of Children and Youth (TEL: 972-2522)
Leisure Facilities for Single-Parent Households
If you use accommodation such as "Kokumin Shukusha Okuhamanako" or day trip facilities such as "Legoland", you will be subsidized.
Inquiries: Ward Office Public Welfare and Child Division, Public Welfare and Child Section, Branch Office Civil Welfare Division, Protection and Child Section
Preferential use of municipal facilities
You can use the city facilities such as Higashiyama Zoo and Botanical Gardens and the city science museum for free.
Inquiries: Ward Office Public Welfare and Child Division, Public Welfare and Child Section, Branch Office Civil Welfare Division, Protection and Child Section
