Is that sound okay?
What's household noise?
Household noise is the sound generated by household activities, such as the sound of television, the sound of doors opening and closing, and the sound of a piano.
Household noise is the sound generated in daily life, so it can't be said that it is not emitted at all.
People feel sound differently.
Sounds that you find "unavoidable" or "enjoyable" in everyday life may be perceived as "loud" or "unpleasant" by people around you.
It is important to pay attention to the sound you make on a daily basis, give consideration to not making unnecessary sounds, and devise ways to make the sound smaller.
If you have a good relationship with your neighbors, such as greeting them on a daily basis, household noise may not be a problem.
Be considerate of the people around you.♪
Sound from audio equipment (stereo, television, piano, etc.)
Please be careful about the time of use such as avoiding early in the morning and late at night.
Close windows, adjust volume, use headphones, and be careful not to let sound leak out.
Let's use a sound-proof sash to prevent the sound from leaking out.
Noise from home appliances and household equipment (air conditioners, vacuum cleaners, etc.)
When you install an outdoor unit, you should choose a place as far as possible from your neighbor's house, and if necessary, you should sound-proof it with a block wall.
When you buy home appliances, you should choose the quieter one.
Avoid use early in the morning and late at night as much as possible.
Noise in the early morning and at night (idling of cars and motorcycles, etc.)
Do not idle your car or motorcycle early in the morning or late at night.
Avoid cleaning and laundry early in the morning and late at night.
Other sounds (such as opening and closing of doors and windows)
Please be careful not to make a loud noise when you open and close doors and windows.
Let's walk quietly in the room.
It echoes loudly in the lower floors.
Issued by: Air Environment Division, Regional Environment Department, Environmental Affairs Bureau, Nagoya City
Phone: 972-2674
FAX: 972-4155
