[Month] [Day], 2021
○○○○ City Representative
* Los Angeles City, Sydney City, Turin City, Mexico City, Lance City and Nanjing City
Hello
I would like to express my heartfelt gratitude to you and all those concerned for your cooperation and support in collecting and sending the works of the "Sister Friendship City Children and Students Calligraphic Exhibition" held by the Nagoya City Board of Education.
Last year, we held the 42nd Sister Friendship City Children and Students Calligraphic Exhibition at Nagoya City Museum from November 18 to 23, 2020.
The exhibition featured 3,098 paintings, 33 three dimensional works and 2,012 calligraphy works selected from 374 elementary and junior high schools in Nagoya City, along with works by children from sister cities and friendship cities.
The exhibition was successful, with as many as 25,078 people visiting.
The unique works by the children of sister cities and friendship cities were different from the works by the children of Nagoya City in terms of the use of colors and the overflowing atmosphere from the pictures. Many parents and children were seen looking at the works with interest while thinking about the state of each sister city and friendship city.
So while it is very late, I would like to send you a postcard as a memento that shows the works that children in Nagoya city submitted to this exhibition and the works selected from the works sent from sister and friendship cities in this city. I hope you find it useful.
This year, as part of the Sister and Friendship City Project, the 43rd Sister Friendship City Children and Students Calligraphic Exhibition will be held from November 17 to 21, 2021. We are planning to exhibit works received from each city that is a sister and friendship city of this city.
Therefore, while we are very sorry for the request amidst various issues such as measures to prevent the spread of coronavirus infections, we would like to ask you to send us the works of children in your city (50 flat works such as paintings, 54 cm x 39 cm or less) by September 1, 2021 if possible.
At the same time, please include a list of names of authors, ages, and titles of each work.
I will send you the form made in Excel attached to the email, so please send it back to me by email attachment after you fill it in.
Please note that we will not return the works you sent to us, just like for other sister cities and friendship cities, as we will use them as educational materials in this city after the exhibition ends.
At this time next year, we will be sending the works of children from Nagoya city to your city, so we hope you will find them useful.
We believe that it is appropriate for the purpose of promoting mutual understanding and deepening friendship between our cities that the works of children sent from sister cities and friendship cities are widely appreciated by citizens.
We look forward to your continued cooperation.
Sincerely yours
Nagoya City Board of Education
Guidance Director ○○○○
(Signature)
