For single-parent families
Trouble Consultation Form
Do you have any problems at work, raising children or living?
There are various counselors at the ward office and branch offices to think together with you and solve your problems and worries.
No matter how trivial it is, it doesn't matter.
Why don't you talk to the counselor first?
If necessary, we can cooperate with other consultation services.
Please tell us about your problem or what you want to consult about.
Please submit this consultation form together with the enclosed Current Status Notice to the ward office or branch office.
Please note that the contents of the consultation form will not be used as materials for determining payment of the child rearing allowance, etc.
It will be kept a secret.
Do you have any of the following problems or things you want to consult about?
Place a circle in parentheses for all applicable fields (multiple answers allowed).
If you don't have any particular problems, place a circle in “2. Not requested” for Q4.
Matters related to work and income
I want to find a job.
I want to work, but I don't have the energy to look for it.
I'm working now, but I want to work on under better conditions.
I’m struggling with workplace relationships
I want a qualification
Other (please specify)
Matters related to health and life
My physical condition is not good
I am sometimes mentally unstable
I am unable to do housework, etc.
I have trouble with family relations
I have trouble with my residence
I want to review my household finances.
I have trouble obtaining child support
I have trouble with debt repayment
I have trouble with language and communication
Other (please specify)
Matters relating to children
I have concerns about raising children
I am feeling burdened in raising children
I feel insecure as my child has a chronic disease or disability.
They are not able to keep up with school work
They do not want to go to school
They tend to be withdrawn
There is not much conversation between parent and child and I do not understand the feelings of the child.
I am feeling insecure about my children's future
I have trouble with tuition fees
Other (please specify)
At the ward office or branch office, we are thinking about what we can do together to solve your problems or worries.
Would you like to consult with a counselor?
Yes
2. No (reason:)
* If you have already consulted with another institution, please tell us where.
(Contact:)
<<Please enter your contact information>>
Furigana
Name
Telephone number
Time when it is easy to answer the phone such as lunch break at work
(Weekdays 10 am - 4 pm)
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, any time
: to :
* Please note that depending on what you have answered, the ward office or branch office may contact you regardless of whether you wish to be contacted or not.
* Depending on the content of your consultation, you may be able to view information related to the child rearing allowance or make inquiries to the relevant organizations.
Ward Office / Branch Office Entry Column
* Please do not write anything.
(Certificate Number:)
