To Guardians with Children
School Attendance Guide for Foreigners
~ What are Japanese schools like? ~
[About elementary and junior high schools in Japan]
We accept foreign children for free as well as Japanese students, and guarantee them the same opportunities to receive education as Japanese.
You can go to the Nagoya City Municipal Elementary School or Junior High School which is determined by your place of residence.
About length of schooling at elementary and junior high schools
In Japan, children can enter elementary school and receive six years of education from the first April after six years of age.
When they graduate from elementary school, they can enter junior high school and receive 3 years of education.
In addition, many students who graduate from junior high school go on to higher education.
There are high schools, specialized training colleges (general and advanced courses), technical colleges and so on as places to go to.
Also, there are people who get a job after graduating from junior high school.
About costs borne by guardians
Tuition fees for public elementary and junior high schools are free.
In addition, textbooks for elementary and junior high schools will be distributed free of charge.
Some costs, such as school lunch costs and paying for necessary school supplies, are borne by the guardians.
About School Expense Support
For those who are having trouble sending their children to elementary and junior high schools due to economic reasons, we have a school expense support program to support school lunch costs.
About health checkup
It is held at the school they go to every year.
For the child who went through the procedure to enter a Nagoya City Municipal Elementary School next April, the School Entry Health Checkup is conducted at that elementary school from October to November before entering the school.
The elementary school you applied for will notify you of the schedule later, so please make sure to go to the checkup.
[About support after enrollment]
In Nagoya city, there is a Japanese language education consultation center for those who want to consult about school or study.
If you want to know more about the school or if you have any trouble such as asking for an interpreter, please feel free to consult with us.
In addition, there are classes for learning basic Japanese (daily conversation, etc.), classes for learning Japanese necessary for subject learning, and other environments where you can learn with peace of mind.
If you want to enter these classrooms, please consult with the teachers of the school you are entering.
[Contact]
About the school expense support system
Board of Education Student Affairs Division School Expense Support Section
Phone: 052 972 3217
About Enrollment Procedures
Please inquire at the counter of your local Ward Office Community Services Division or Branch Office Community Services Section.
About Learning the Japanese Language and School Life after Enrollment
Japanese Language Education Center
Address: Nagoya City Hall of Education, 3 f, 1-1-4, Izumi, Higashi-ku, Nagoya City, 461 0001
Phone: 052 961 0418
