What do you want to do today?
I want the documents that I need to extend my visa
I want the documents that I need for the procedure to bring my family to Japan
I want to pay my taxes
I want my proof of income
I want to discuss payment of my taxes with you
I want my tax payment certificate
When submitting documents to the Immigration Bureau, both proof of income and a tax payment certificate are required.
Tax exempt persons need a tax exemption certificate.
Do you have the documents you received from the Immigration Bureau?
Whose certificate do you need?
Please take a look at this sample and fill out the application form.
Can you talk on the phone with a family member or friend who can speak Japanese now?
Please come to this counter again with someone who understands Japanese.
I will connect the video call now.
You need to go to the 〇〇 city tax office (〇〇 branch office).
What is your relationship with this person?
A power of attorney is required if someone other than the applicant visits the counter.
Which year's certificate do you need?
Example: The 2017 proof of income proves the income in 2016.
May I issue a certificate for the latest fiscal year?
How many do you need?
Please show me your ID.
We cannot carry out the procedures without an ID.
Where were you living on January 1st of this year?
Please get your certificate at ○○.
If you lived outside of Japan on January 1st of this year, the certificate cannot be issued.
Were you working in the year ○○?
Is there anything that shows the annual income of the person who needs proof?
(withholding slip, pay slip, etc.)
Do you have any other documents?
Please complete this form.
Your income is written.
Municipal tax and prefectural tax are 0 yen.
you are in arrears with your taxes.
If you pay the unpaid tax now, we can issue a tax payment certificate immediately.
Will you pay the tax now?
Please pay the tax at the bank counter, then come back to this counter with the receipt.
Please pay the tax at the General Affairs Section, then come back to this counter with the receipt.
Please pay the tax at counter number ○ on floor ○, then come back to this counter with the receipt.
Please show me your receipt.
Municipal tax and prefectural tax are 0 yen, so we cannot issue a tax payment certificate.
If the "unpaid amount" is the same as the "amount not yet due," you will not be in arrears.
Your municipal/prefectural tax is deducted from your salary by the company you work for and paid to Nagoya City.
I paid this tax.
Please pay the fee.
The procedure is complete.
Mandator
Address
Full name
Telephone number
Seal of the person (person who wants proof)
The person (person who wants proof)
Please write your address, full name, and telephone number.
Mandate
Write the name of the proof you need and the number (required).
Agent
Person coming to the counter
Who do you need proof for?
Person at the counter
Spouse (wife or husband)
Parent
Child
Support application
Pension application
Public housing (income declaration)
Financing (borrowing funds)
Receipt of child allowance
Submit to the Immigration Bureau
Application for school assistance
Application for high school tuition support or reduction of private high school tuition fees
Scholarship application
Special support education enrollment encouragement/private kindergarten enrollment encouragement application
Specific medical expenses application
Visa application
Bidding
Submission to public offices (other than bidding)
Guarantor
Liquor sales license application
Please write the names of the family members you support.
Relationship
Please write down your living situation.
I am supported by someone.
The person who supports you
Student
School name
Receiving medical treatment
Unemployed
Please write the name of the person whose certificate you need.
Please write the address of the person who needs a certificate.
Please write your date of birth.
Please write your name.
Please write your address.
Please write your phone number.
Application for tuition fee exemption for various schools such as universities
Application for high-cost medical care expenses/limit application certification
I will give you the 〇〇 certificate.
