Guidance on "Support System for Single-Parent Families"
For details, please ask at the inquiries contact below.
Inquiries will be handled in Japanese.
Receiving allowances or pension
Child Rearing Allowance/Nagoya City Single Parent Family Allowance/Aichi Prefecture Orphan Allowance
This allowance is paid if you are raising a child under the age of 18 by yourself due to divorce, children born out of wedlock, or death, etc.
*Includes cases where the father or mother has a certain disability.
*If the child is 18 years old, you are eligible for the allowance from the child's birthday to March 31st.
Inquiries: Public Welfare and Child Affairs Office, Public Welfare and Child Affairs Section, Ward Office, Protection and Child Affairs Office, Resident Welfare Section, Branch Office
Child allowance
This allowance is paid to those who are raising children up to the third year of junior high school.
Inquiries: Public Welfare and Child Affairs Office, Public Welfare and Child Affairs Section, Ward Office, Protection and Child Affairs Office, Resident Welfare Section, Branch Office
Bereaved family basic pension
This allowance is paid in cases such as when a person who has been enrolled in the National Pension or Old-age Basic Pension for 25 years or more has died, and when their widow/widower lives with a child aged 18 or under.
*If the child is 18 years old, you are eligible for the allowance from the child's birthday to March 31st.
Inquiries: Management Office, Insurance and Pension Section, Ward Office, Insurance Office, Resident Welfare Section, Branch Office
Reduce financial burden
Subsidy for medical expenses for single-parent families
Self-payment of medical expenses is subsidized.
Inquiries: Insurance Office, Insurance and Pension Section, Ward Office, Insurance Office, Resident Welfare Section, Branch Office
Reduction/exemption of national health insurance premiums
Widows and single parents under the tax law pay reduced national health insurance premiums or are exempt.
*Conditions apply.
Inquiries: Insurance Office, Insurance and Pension Section, Ward Office, Insurance Office, Resident Welfare Section, Branch Office
National health insurance fee exemption/deferral
Widows and single parents under the tax law are exempted from or can defer national health insurance premiums.
Conditions apply.
Inquiries: Management Office, Insurance and Pension Section, Ward Office, Insurance Office, Resident Welfare Section, Branch Office
Reduction/exemption of water and sewerage charges
Water and sewerage charges are reduced for households receiving Child Rearing Allowance.
*Limited to cases where the recipient himself/herself holds the contract with water and sewerage company.
Inquiries: Public Welfare and Child Affairs Office, Public Welfare and Child Affairs Section, Ward Office, Protection and Child Affairs Office, Resident Welfare Section, Branch Office
JR commuter pass special discount
Households receiving Child Rearing Allowance can receive a 30% discount by submitting a certificate issued by a ward office or branch office when they purchase a JR commuter pass.
*Student commuter passes are not eligible.
Inquiries: Public Welfare and Child Affairs Office, Public Welfare and Child Affairs Section, Ward Office, Protection and Child Affairs Office, Resident Welfare Section, Branch Office
Receive tax reduction/exemption
Those who meet the conditions under the tax law can benefit from the tax reduction system.
In addition, those who meet the conditions may be exempted from or pay a reduced rate of inhabitant tax (city/prefectural tax).
If you want to apply, please do not forget to declare it in your year-end tax adjustment and final tax return.
Inquiries: City tax office of your ward
Receive a loan
Mother and child, father and child widow welfare fund loan
You can borrow necessary expenses for studying at school, acquiring skills, finding a job, or moving house, etc.
Inquiries: Public Welfare and Child Affairs Office, Public Welfare and Child Affairs Section, Ward Office, Protection and Child Affairs Office, Resident Welfare Section, Branch Office
Finding a job/improving your skills
Advanced vocational training promotion benefit
If you are studying at a training institution in order to acquire the qualifications necessary for employment or changing jobs, such as becoming a nurse, this benefit pays your living expenses for a certain period of time.
Inquiries: Public Welfare and Child Affairs Office, Public Welfare and Child Affairs Section, Ward Office, Protection and Child Affairs Office, Resident Welfare Section, Branch Office
Advanced vocational training promotion fund loan
If you aim to acquire qualifications while receiving the above benefit ⑩, you can borrow the money you need to enter school or to get a job.
Inquiries: Public Welfare and Child Affairs Office, Public Welfare and Child Affairs Section, Ward Office, Protection and Child Affairs Office, Resident Welfare Section, Branch Office
Independence support education and training benefit
Part of the tuition fee is subsidized when you take a course to acquire a qualification such as nursing care.
*Conditions apply.
Please consult with us before starting the course.
Inquiries: Public Welfare and Child Affairs Office, Public Welfare and Child Affairs Section, Ward Office, Protection and Child Affairs Office, Resident Welfare Section, Branch Office
High school graduation certificate exam pass support benefit
Part of the tuition fee is subsidized when you take a course to pass the high school graduation certificate exam.
*Conditions apply.
Please consult with us before starting the course.
Inquiries: Public Welfare and Child Affairs Office, Public Welfare and Child Affairs Section, Ward Office, Protection and Child Affairs Office, Resident Welfare Section, Branch Office
Employment support workshops
We hold workshops to help people acquire useful skills and knowledge for employment and career change on topics such as personal computers and nursing care.
Inquiries: Public Welfare and Child Affairs Office, Public Welfare and Child Affairs Section, Ward Office, Protection and Child Affairs Office, Resident Welfare Section, Branch Office
Application for the sale of tobacco
When applying for the sale of tobacco, the criteria for permission will be relaxed.
Inquiries: Finance Section, Finance Department, Tokai Finance Bureau TEL 951-2546
Job consultation
Hello Work near you
Some Hello Work offices have interpreters.
Please see the website.
Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare website
https://www.mhlw.go.jp/content/000592865.pdf
Joinas.Nagoya
We help single-parent families find jobs.
TEL 252-8824
Find a place to live
Recruitment for public housing
We recruit single-parent households in addition to general residents for municipal and prefectural housing.
Inquiries: Public Welfare and Child Affairs Office, Public Welfare and Child Affairs Section, Ward Office, Protection and Child Affairs Office, Resident Welfare Section, Branch Office
Mother and child life support facility
This is a facility for children under the age of 18 and their mothers who need protection.
Inquiries: Public Welfare and Child Affairs Office, Public Welfare and Child Affairs Section, Ward Office, Protection and Child Affairs Office, Resident Welfare Section, Branch Office
Private rental housing move-in consultation (reservation required)
We provide move-in consultations for child-rearing households who wish to move into private rental housing.
Inquiries: Sakae Citizen Service Corner Housing Counter "Nagoya City Housing Consultation Corner" 3-5-12 Sakae, Naka-ku Sakae Mori no Underground Shopping Mall South 4th Street South Side TEL 242-4555
Receive child care support
Short-term admission life support for children (short stay)
If it is temporarily difficult to raise a child at home due to social reasons such as parental illness, in principle, the child will be looked after at an infant home, children's home, or foster home for up to one week.
Inquiries: Public Welfare and Child Affairs Office, Public Welfare and Child Affairs Section, Ward Office, Protection and Child Affairs Office, Resident Welfare Section, Branch Office
Life support for single-parent families, etc.
For single-parent households and widows who are having trouble with daily life
Living assistance: A helper visits your home to help with housework and nursing care.
Child-rearing support: Temporarily take care of your child at a designated child-care facility.
Inquiries: Public Welfare and Child Affairs Office, Public Welfare and Child Affairs Section, Ward Office, Protection and Child Affairs Office, Resident Welfare Section, Branch Office
Diverse childcare
If you need childcare for your child due to work or other reasons, you can use a nursery school.
Holiday daycare, extended daycare, nighttime daycare, sick child daycare, and post-sick child daycare are available.
Inquiries: Public Welfare and Child Affairs Office, Public Welfare and Child Affairs Section, Ward Office, Protection and Child Affairs Office, Resident Welfare Section, Branch Office
Extended childcare in kindergarten
Temporary extended childcare will be provided at the kindergarten or certified child center that the child attends.
Inquiries: Your local kindergarten or certified children center
Temporary childcare
We temporarily take care of children if childcare at home becomes temporarily difficult due to unforeseen circumstances, or in order to reduce the mental and physical burden on guardians due to childcare fatigue.
Inquiries:
Temporary childcare
Public Welfare and Child Affairs Office, Public Welfare and Child Affairs Section, Ward Office
Protection and Child Affairs Office, Resident Welfare Section, Branch Office
Nobi-nobi parenting support
Headquarters
TEL962-5103
Childcare support base
Each childcare support base
Secure your child's education expenses
Support for attending school, etc.
Depending on the type of school your child attends, you will receive financial support for school expenses.
Inquiries: The kindergarten/school your child attends
Scholarships, etc. (Japan Student Services Organization)
Grant-type scholarships and tuition reductions/exemptions are available for those who attend universities and junior colleges.
Inquiries: The school your child attends
Japan Student Services Organization website https://www.jasso.go.jp/
Ensuring opportunities for children to learn and have social experiences
Learning support for junior high school students
We hold study sessions tailored to each student's learning level with the aim of developing good study habits and preparing for high school.
Inquiries: Child Future Planning Office, Children and Youth Bureau TEL 972-3199
Creating places for children from single-parent families
For children from the 5th grade of elementary school to the 3rd grade of junior high school, we have set up a place where you can casually stop by, chat, do your homework, relax, and participate in events.
Inquiries: Child Future Planning Office, Children and Youth Bureau TEL 972-3199
Cultural and sports exchanges
We hold events where you can experience the world of professionals, such as sports and music, so that you can interact with your child and other single parents, and to provide opportunities for future career choices.
Inquiries: Child Future Planning Office, Children and Youth Bureau TEL 972-2522
Single parent family rest home
Fees are subsidized when using lodging facilities such as National Inn Okuhamanako and day-trip facilities such as Legoland.
Inquiries: Public Welfare and Child Affairs Office, Public Welfare and Child Affairs Section, Ward Office, Protection and Child Affairs Office, Resident Welfare Section, Branch Office
Discounted use of city facilities
City facilities such as the Higashiyama Zoo and Botanical Gardens and the City Science Museum can be used free of charge.
Inquiries: Public Welfare and Child Affairs Office, Public Welfare and Child Affairs Section, Ward Office, Protection and Child Affairs Office, Resident Welfare Section, Branch Office
