Is that noise okay?
What is daily life noise?
Daily life noise refers to sounds that occur in daily life, such as the sound of the TV, the sound of doors opening and closing, and the sound of a piano.
Daily life noise is noise that occurs in daily life, so it is always present to some degree.
Noise is perceived differently by different people.
Noises that cannot be avoided or sounds that are pleasant to you may be perceived as a noise nuisance or unpleasant noise by others.
It is important to pay attention to the noise you make on a daily basis, to avoid making unnecessary noise, and to devise ways to reduce noise.
If you maintain good relationships with your neighbors, such as by greeting them on a daily basis, daily life noise may not become a problem.
Be considerate of the people around you in your daily life
Noise from audio equipment (stereos, TVs, pianos, etc.)
Pay attention to the time of use, such as avoiding early morning and late night.
Take steps such as closing the window, adjusting the volume, or using headphones to prevent the noise from leaking outside.
Use a soundproof sash to prevent noise from leaking outside.
Noise from home appliances and household equipment (air conditioners, vacuum cleaners, etc.)
When installing an outdoor unit, try to choose a location that is as far away from neighbors as possible, and if necessary, soundproof it with a block wall.
When buying home appliances, try to choose ones that make less noise.
Avoid using such appliances early in the morning or late at night.
Noises in the early morning and at night (idling of cars and motorcycles, etc.)
Avoid idling or revving your car or motorcycle early in the morning or late at night.
Avoid cleaning or doing laundry early in the morning or late at night.
Other noises (noise of opening and closing doors and windows, etc.)
Be careful not to make a loud noise when opening and closing doors and windows.
Walk quietly indoors.
It makes a large noise in the floor below.
Publisher: Air Quality Measures Section, Regional Environmental Measures Department, Nagoya City Environment Bureau
Telephone: 972-2674
Fax: 972-4155
