To Parents
Nagoya City Board of Education
Notice of School Attendance Assistance Continuation Procedure
(For September 2020 to August 2021)
If you are currently receiving school attendance assistance, the period of receipt is until August 2020.
If you would like to continue to receive assistance from September 2020 to August 2021, please submit the separate “Application for Continuation of School Attendance Assistance” to your child's school.
Submission Deadline
Submit to the school by June 10 (Wednesday)
If you cannot submit your application by June 10 (Wednesday), please notify the school that you will submit it at a later date.
Those who have submitted complete documents to the school by September 24 (Thursday) will be considered for continuation approval.
If there is a delay or incompleteness in the submission of your documents, you will not be granted continuation approval on September 1.
Please make sure you understand the above when submitting your application.
[Notes]
If you have two or more children who you would like to apply for assistance for, please apply for each child separately.
The certification will be based on the content of your application.
Please be sure to contact the school as soon as possible if there is any change in your household status after applying (change of guardian, remarriage, moving house, living with grandparents, etc.).
If, at a later date, it is discovered that the submitted documents contain corrections or errors and no longer satisfy the certification requirements, the certification may be revoked.
If there are any doubts about the content of your application, we may confirm your household situation, income, etc. ex officio.
Payment details (scheduled as of April 2020)
September to December 2020
Payment around October 26
January to March 2021
Payment around January 25
April to August 2021
Payment around June 1
School supplies, etc.
1st year elementary school
4,320 yen
3,240 yen
[Please see the new school year column]
2nd to 6th year elementary school
5,040 yen
3,780 yen
6,680 yen
1st year junior high school
8,200 yen
6,150 yen
10,690 yen
2nd and 3rd year junior high school
9,000 yen
6,750 yen
11,560 yen
Enrollment reserve
6th year elementary school
60,000 yen
Paid around February 25
Graduation album fee, etc.
6th year elementary school/3rd year junior high school
Provided to students who are receiving school assistance as of March 1 and who purchase a graduation album, etc.
Actual cost
School lunch fees
All years
The school principal pays the organization that provides school lunches (the assistance is not paid directly to the guardian.)
For school lunches at junior high schools, the parent is paid the actual amount for food and drink
The payment for April is around June 1, March is around March 31, and other months are paid around the 25th of the following month
Actual cost
Outdoor activity fees
5th year elementary school/2nd year junior high school
Paid to children who were receiving school assistance at the time of implementation and who participated in the outdoor activity
Payment will be made after implementation (usually 2-3 months later.)
Actual cost
School trip fees
6th year elementary school/3rd year junior high school
Paid to children who were receiving school assistance at the time of implementation and who participated in the school trip
Payment will be made after implementation (usually 2-3 months later.)
Actual cost
School transportation fees
Due to special educational considerations, actual expenses will be paid to children and students who use public transportation to commute to their school with a commuting distance of 4 km or more for elementary school or 6 km or more for junior high school (there is no commuting distance restriction for special needs students.)
Payment months are July, October, and January
Medical fees for school-directed illnesses
The school principal will pay medical fees for illnesses treated based on the direction of the school to the medical institution (they will not be paid directly to the parent.)
School life management guidance chart document fees
All years
Document fees for school life management guidance charts prepared by doctors regarding food allergies and heart/kidney-related diseases will be paid.
A receipt from the medical institution is required
April and May will be paid around June 25, other months will be paid around the 25th of the following month
Actual cost (maximum amount 3,000 yen)
*For households receiving public assistance, only school trip fees and medical fees for school-directed illnesses are subsidized items for tuition assistance.
Other fees are covered by public assistance and are provided by the Social Welfare Office (Ward Office Public Welfare and Child Affairs Section).
*School-directed diseases include trachoma, conjunctivitis, otitis media, chronic sinusitis, tooth decay, adenoids, parasitic diseases, and certain skin diseases.
Before undergoing treatment, be sure to receive a "treatment statement" from the school in advance and bring it to the medical institution.
In addition, if you have a child medical certificate or a single-parent family medical certificate, these certificates will be given priority.
*Payment timing may vary slightly.
Persons who are eligible for school attendance assistance and the required documents
If you have signed your name and affixed your seal in the "Consent" column of the Application for Continuation of School Assistance, the Board of Education will confirm the necessary information for continuation approval. Therefore, attached documents (child support allowance certificate, municipal tax prefectural tax certificate, etc.) are not required.
However, if the necessary information cannot be obtained as a result of checking by the Board of Education, such as when you have moved to Nagoya City after January 2, 2020, or when you have not reported your income, please submit the required documents separately.
If there is a person in your household who lives at a different address due to a job away from home, etc., the Board of Education will not be able to obtain the necessary information, so we will ask you to submit the necessary documents.
In addition, if you do not sign your name and affix your seal in the "Consent" column, please attach the required documents for each of the following categories.
Application item
Attached documents (for example, if you do not sign your name or affix your seal in the “Consent column”)
Place of certificate issuance
1
Persons requiring protection as stipulated in the Public Assistance Act
Not required
2
Persons whose public assistance has been suspended or abolished since April 2, 2019
Not required (in principle)
*This does not apply if the public assistance was abolished due to a change in household (remarriage, etc.).
3
Persons who received Child Rearing Allowance
Child Rearing Allowance certificate
*A copy of the page stamped by the head of the Social Welfare Office is required.
*The receipt period must be [November 2019 or later].
*Child Allowance, Single Parent Family Allowance, Aichi Prefecture Orphan Allowance, and Special Child Rearing Allowance are not applicable.
Public Welfare and Child Affairs Section, Ward Office
Resident Welfare Section, Branch Office
(Social Welfare Office)
4
Persons with financial difficulties
Municipal tax prefectural tax certificate [Fiscal 2020 (income for 2019)] (copy acceptable)
*Necessary for all household members (excluding those who are dependents under the Income Tax Act and those who are high school students or younger)
Municipal tax office/branch office, ward office/branch tax office counter
You can apply for this item if the total income of all household members in 2019 was less than the income standard amounts below.
Household size
2 person household
3 person household
4 person household
5 person household
6 person household
Income standard amount
2,469,000 yen
2,769,000 yen
3,146,000 yen
3,726,000 yen
4,097,000 yen
(Estimated income)
(3.76 million yen)
(4.14 million yen)
(4.60 million yen)
(5.33 million yen)
(5.79 million yen)
For households with 7 or more people, 489,000 yen is added to the standard income for households with 6 people for each additional person.
The income standard amount in the upper row is the approval standard.
The amount in the bottom ( ) is a guideline for the income of salaried workers.
If your income has drastically decreased due to unavoidable circumstances such as injury or illness of those who maintain your livelihood, or unemployment (dismissal, bankruptcy), etc., or if your income has drastically decreased due to the impact of COVID-19, income exceeding the standard amount may also be considered.
Please consult your school.
(Retirement age and voluntary retirement are not applicable)
Note 1: A “household” for tuition assistance refers to all people living in the same house.
Grandparents, etc. who live in the same house are considered to be in the same household, even if they have different livelihoods and residence certificates.
The same household includes those who do not live in the same house due to work away from home, etc., but maintain the livelihood of the household.
Please list all members of the same household in the household status column of the application form.
Note 2: All members of the household must apply to the same item (except application item 3).
Others
Approval and payment from April to August 2021 are based on the assumption that the FY2021 budget will be passed.
Please note that depending on the situation, your application may not be approved or paid as described in this guide.
The period of assistance for children graduating from junior high school this year is until March 2021.
If there is non-payment of the school fees that are covered by the school attendance assistance, you may need to pay the school even if you have applied for bank transfer.
When the Board of Education inspects and confirms the information (basic resident register information, public assistance information, child rearing allowance information, income information) necessary for the examination of eligibility for school attendance assistance, based on your consent, if there are doubts about the application content, it may be necessary to check the circumstances.
*If you have any questions, please contact the Academic Affairs Division of the Nagoya City Board of Education (TEL 972-3217 FAX 972-4175) or the school your child attends.
