__________, 2021
○○○○ City Person in Charge
*Los Angeles, Sydney, Turin, Mexico City, Reims, Nanjing
Greetings
I would like to express my heartfelt gratitude to you and everyone else involved for your cooperation and support in collecting and sending works for the "Sister and Friendship Cities Children's Drawing Exhibition" sponsored by the Nagoya City Board of Education.
Last year, from November 18th to 23rd, 2020, the 42nd Sister and Friendship Cities Children's Drawing Exhibition was held at the Nagoya City Museum.
The exhibition included 3,098 paintings, 33 three-dimensional works, and 2,012 calligraphy works, selected from 374 elementary and junior high schools in Nagoya City, along with works by children from sister and friendship cities.
There were 25,078 visitors and the event was a great success.
The unique works of children from sister and friendship cities are different from the works drawn by children from Nagoya City in terms of the use of color and atmosphere, and many parents and children viewed them with great interest while thinking about the sister and friendship cities.
Therefore, although it is very late, I would like to send you some picture postcards featuring works selected from the exhibition by the children of Nagoya City and Nagoya's sister and friendship cities as a commemorative gift. I hope you will find them useful.
In addition, this year as well, as part of the Sister and Friendship Cities project, the 43rd Sister and Friendship Cities Children's Drawing Exhibition will be held from November 17 to 21, 2021, and we are planning an exhibition of the works submitted by children from sister and friendship cities.
Therefore, I am very sorry to ask you in the midst of various issues such as measures to prevent the spread of COVID-19, but if possible, I would like you to send some works by children in your city (50 two-dimensional works such as paintings measuring up to 54 cm x 39 cm) by September 1, 2021. Thank you for your consideration.
Please also include a list with the author name, age, and title of each work.
We will send you an email with a form created in Excel, so please return it as an attachment after filling it out.
Please note that we will use the works sent to us as materials for school education after the exhibition is over, so we will not return them, in the same way as other sister and friendship cities.
At this time next year, we will be sending works by children from Nagoya to your city.
I believe that when many people view children's works sent by sister and friendship cities, it will help to promote mutual understanding and deepening friendships between the cities.
I look forward to your continued cooperation in the future.
Sincerely,
Nagoya City Board of Education
Guidance Office Director ○ ○ ○ ○
(Signature)
