Announcement of 2020 Special Support Education Enrollment Incentives
Children with disabilities who are enrolled in classes for special needs at elementary and junior high schools in Nagoya City can use the "Special Support Education Enrollment Incentives" system, which pays for school supplies and school lunches, etc., depending on the household income.
Eligible children
Those who fall under any of the following 1 to 3
Children in special support classes
Children in special needs classrooms (those other than those who fall under 3.
Only transportation expenses (commuting expenses) will be paid.)
*Also applies to classes at prefectural special support schools.
Students in regular classes (including special needs classrooms) who fall under the degree of disability stipulated in Article 22-3 of the Order for Enforcement of the School Education Act (See the reverse side for details.)
Subsidized expenses
Category
Elementary school
Junior high school
School lunch fees
Actual cost × 1/2
Actual cost × 1/2
Transportation expenses (commuting expenses)
Actual cost (Note 1)
Actual cost (Note 1)
Exchange study transportation expenses
Actual cost (Note 1)
Actual cost (Note 1)
School trip fees
Actual cost × 1/2 (maximum 10,790 yen)
Actual cost × 1/2 (maximum 28,860 yen)
Off-campus activity fees (with accommodation)
Actual cost × 1/2 (maximum 3,422 yen)
Actual cost × 1/2 (maximum 3,540 yen)
Off-campus activity fees (without accommodation)
800 yen
1,155 yen
Expenses for purchasing school supplies/commuting supplies
Actual cost × 1/2 (Note 2) (maximum 5,820 yen)
Actual cost × 1/2 (Note 2) (maximum 11,370 yen)
Purchase fees for school supplies and commuting supplies for new students (1st grade only)
Actual cost × 1/2 (Note 2) (maximum 25,555 yen) (Note 3)
Actual cost × 1/2 (Note 2) (maximum 28,990 yen) (Note 3)
(Note 1) ② and ③ are “Actual cost × 1/2” if the approval level is Level III.
(Note 2) ⑦ and ⑧ will be paid according to the actual purchase, and a receipt (address, product name, amount) is required.
(⑦ is for items purchased from February 2020 to January 2021, and ⑧ is for items purchased by April 2020.
However, if the school supplies or school commuting supplies necessary for entering the school ⑧ were purchased after April due to temporary closures as a result of COVID-19, receipts until the end of June will be covered.)
(Note 3) The upper limit has been increased from the previous fiscal year.
Approval level calculation standard and subsidized expenses
The approval level is determined by the level of household income compared to the standard demand amount for public assistance, and the expenses and amount to be subsidized will vary depending on the approval level.
The approval level is determined each fiscal year.
Approval level
Calculation standard
Subsidized expenses
I
Income amount is less than 1.5 times the demand amount
II
Income amount is 1.5 times or more and less than 2.5 times the demand amount
① to ⑧
III
Income amount is 2.5 times or more the demand amount
②, ③
Guideline for Levels I and II (income amount less than 2.5 times the standard demand amount for public assistance)
The approximate incomes are as follows.
Even if the number of people in a household is the same, the income amount varies depending on factors such as age composition.
Household size
2 person household
3 person household
4 person household
5 person household
6 person household
Household income
4,634,000 yen
6,044,000 yen
7,119,000 yen
7,960,000 yen
9,219,000 yen
(Annual income of salaried workers)
(7,292,000 yen)
(9,055,000 yen)
(10,375,000 yen)
(11,364,000 yen)
(12,845,000 yen)
In addition to the "Special Support Education Enrollment Incentives" system, there is a "School Attendance Assistance" system that provides assistance with the cost of school lunches and school supplies for those who are in financial difficulty.
It is not possible to receive the same payment items under both the School Attendance Assistance system and the Special Support Education Enrollment Incentives system.
We recommend that those who are eligible for the School Attendance Assistance system choose this system as it is more generous.
However, ③ exchange study transportation expenses are paid only by the Special Support Education Enrollment Incentives fee, so application is required.
Criteria for students in regular classes (including special needs classrooms) who fall under the degree of disability stipulated in Article 22-3 of the Order for Enforcement of the School Education Act (Eligible children #3 on the front side)
Category
Degree of disability (Criteria under Article 22-3 of the Enforcement Order of the School Education Act)
Judgment method
Required documents
Children with visually impairments
Children with corrected visual acuity of less than 0.3 in both eyes or those with severe visual impairment other than visual acuity, to the extent that visual recognition of normal letters and figures, etc. is impossible or extremely difficult* even with the use of a magnifying glass.*
*It takes a considerable amount of time to visually recognize normal letters and figures, and special support and consideration is required in teaching all subjects, and special guidance is systematically and continually required to improve and overcome the disability
Children with a physical disability certificate grade 2 or higher, or children with a physical disability certificate grade 3 to 6 that have been diagnosed by a doctor as meeting the criteria on the left
Copy of physical disability certificate
Doctor's certificate (based on the format specified by Nagoya City)
(② is required only for physical disability certificate grades 3 to 6)
Children with hearing impairments
Children who have a hearing level of approximately 60 decibels or more in both ears and are unable or find it extremely difficult to understand normal speech even with the use of a hearing aid or cochlear implant
Children with intellectual disabilities
Children with intellectual developmental delay, difficulty communicating with others, who have frequent need for assistance with the activities of daily living
Children whose degree of intellectual developmental delay does not reach level 1, and who find adapting to social life extremely difficult
Children whose welfare notebook nursing judgment is A
Copy of welfare notebook
Children with physical disabilities
Children with physical disabilities that make it impossible or difficult to perform activities such as walking*, eating, putting on and taking off clothes, excreting, and basic learning activities such as drawing, even with the use of assistive devices
For children whose physical disability does not reach level 1, those that require constant medical observation and guidance (constant medical observation is required within a specific period, and each movement and behavior of daily life from waking up to going to bed requires guidance and training)
*Walking does not include movement in a wheelchair.
Children with a physical disability certificate grade 2 or higher, or children with a physical disability certificate grade 3 to 6 that have been diagnosed by a doctor as meeting the criteria on the left
Copy of physical disability certificate
Doctor's certificate (based on the format specified by Nagoya City)
(② is required only for physical disability certificate grades 3 to 6)
Sick children
Chronic respiratory disease, kidney disease, neurological disease, malignant neoplasm or other disease condition that requires continuous medical care*1 or lifestyle restrictions*2
A state of physical weakness that continues and that requires lifestyle restrictions*2
*1 Diagnosis and treatment centered on doctors.
It does not include routine drug intake or self-injections.
*2 A disease that significantly limits exercise, daily activities (walking, bathing, reading, learning, etc.) and the quality and quantity of meals
Diagnosed by a doctor as meeting the criteria on the left
Doctor's certificate (based on the format specified by Nagoya City)
For children with multiple disabilities, the most severe disability will be considered.
[Procedure]
We will inform you about applications for children who attend special support classes or special needs classes around the beginning of June.
For other children and students, please contact the school if you wish to receive an allowance.
Also, if you need a doctor's certificate, please receive the necessary documents from the school, bring them to the medical institution, and request the medical certificate.
For details on the system, please contact the school you child attends or the Academic Affairs Section of the Nagoya City Board of Education (TEL 972-3217).
Nagoya City Board of Education May 2020
