For Single-Parent Families
Problem Consultation Form
Do you have any problems with your work, child-rearing, life, etc.?
Ward offices and branch offices have a variety of counselors to help you think about and resolve your problems.
It doesn't matter how trivial it is.
Why not start by talking to a counselor?
If necessary, we can also cooperate with other consultation counters.
Please let us know what you are having trouble with and what you would like to discuss.
Please submit this consultation form to the ward office/branch office together with the enclosed current situation report.
Note that what you write on the consultation form will not be used for determining payment of Child Rearing Allowance.
It will be kept strictly confidential.
Are you struggling with or would you like to discuss any of the following?
Please put a circle in the parenthesis for all applicable items (multiple answers allowed).
If you do not have any particular problems, please circle "2 No" in Q4.
Things related to your work and income
I want to find a job
I know I should work, but I don't have the energy to look for it
I am currently working but I want to find better working conditions
I am concerned about interpersonal relationships at work
I want to gain a qualification
Other (please specify)
Things related to your health and life
I am in poor physical condition
I am sometimes mentally unstable
I can't manage my household chores
I have problems with my family
I have problems with my housing
I want to review my household budget
I'm having trouble getting child support
I'm having trouble repaying my debts
I have problems with language and communication
Other (please specify)
Things related to your children
I feel anxiety about raising my children
I feel that raising my children is a burden
I feel uneasy because my child has a chronic disease or disability
My child can't keep up with their studies at school
My child doesn't want to go to school
My child tends to be withdrawn
I don't talk to my child much and I don't know how he/she feels
I feel anxious about my child's future
I'm having trouble with the cost of going on to higher education
Other (please specify)
At the ward office/branch office, we are thinking about what we can do together to solve your problems and worries.
Would you like to consult with a counselor?
Yes
2 No (Reason:                                       )
*If you have already had a consultation with another organization, please tell us which organization it was.
(Consultation organization:                            )
<Please enter your contact information>
Furigana
Name
Telephone number
Time when it is easy for you to answer the telephone, such as work lunch break
(Weekdays 10:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.)
Monday / Tuesday / Wednesday / Thursday / Friday / Anytime
__:__ to __:__
*Please note that the ward office or branch office may contact you depending on the content of your answers, regardless of whether or not you wish to receive consultation.
*Depending on the content of your answers, we may view information related to Child Rearing Allowance or refer to related organizations.
For use by Ward Office/Branch Office
*Please do not write anything here
(Certificate number:                             )
