To Parents with Children
School Guide for Foreigners
~ What Kind of Place is a Japanese School? ~
[About Elementary and Junior High Schools in Japan]
Foreign children are accepted free of charge in the same way as Japanese students, and the opportunity to receive the same education as Japanese children is guaranteed.
Your children can attend the Nagoya municipal elementary school or junior high school that is determined by your place of residence.
About school attendance period of elementary school and junior high school
In Japan, children can enter elementary school from the first April after they turn 6 years old and receive 6 years of education.
After graduating from elementary school, children can enter junior high school and receive three years of education.
In addition, many students who graduate from junior high school go on to higher education.
Destinations include high schools, specialized training colleges (general and advanced courses), and technical colleges.
In addition, some people find employment after graduating from junior high school.
Parents' expense burden
Public elementary and junior high school tuition is free.
In addition, elementary and junior high school textbooks are distributed free of charge.
Note that parents are responsible for some expenses such as school lunches and school supplies.
About School Attendance Assistance
We provide a School Attendance Assistance system to assist with the cost of school lunches, etc. for those who find it difficult to send their children to elementary or junior high school due to economic hardship.
About health checkups
Health checkups are held at schools every year.
Children who have completed procedures to enter a Nagoya City elementary school in the following April will undergo a pre-school health checkup at the elementary school between October and November before entering the school.
The schedule and other information will be sent from the elementary school where you applied for admission at a later date so be sure to take the health checkup.
[Regarding support after admission]
Nagoya City provides a Japanese Education Consultation Center for those who have questions about school or studies.
If you would like to know more about schools, or if you have any problems, such as needing an interpreter, please feel free to contact the center.
In addition, we have prepared an environment where students can study with peace of mind, such as classrooms for learning basic Japanese (daily conversation, etc.) and classrooms for learning Japanese necessary for studying subjects.
If you wish to enroll in one of these classes, please speak with a teacher at the school your child will attend.
[Inquiries]
About School Attendance Assistance system
School Attendance Assistance Office, Academic Affairs Section, Board of Education
Telephone number 052-972-3217
Admission procedures
Please inquire at the Citizens' Section counter at your ward office or the Citizens’ Office counter at your branch office.
About school life and learning Japanese after admission
Japanese Language Education Center
Address: Nagoya City Education Center 3F, 1-1-4 Izumi, Higashi-ku, Nagoya-shi, 461-0001
Telephone number 052-961-0418
