Guidance concerning the COVID-19 vaccination certificate
This certificate is issued to those who have been vaccinated against COVID-19 and who need a document proving that they have been vaccinated other than the standard Japanese vaccination certificate due to overseas travel or other circumstances.
For the time being, this vaccination certificate is limited to persons who require it for overseas travel.
In Japan, even if you do not have this certificate, you can confirm the fact that you have been vaccinated with the standard Japanese vaccination certificate.
How to Apply
We only accept applications by mail.
There is no fee for issuing a certificate, except for the postage required for application and issuance.
*If you are planning to leave Japan in the near future and you do not have enough time to wait for a certificate issued by mail, please contact the call center.
Flow of Certificate Application
Mail the required documents to the address below.
(Submitted required documents will not be returned.)
The city hall will check the content of the documents.
The certificate will be sent by the city hall.
In principle, the certificate will be prepared and sent to you within about a week after we receive your application, but if there are any omissions in your application, we will need to call you to check the information before issuing your certificate.
Also, it will take several days for the application to be mailed, so please allow plenty of time when applying.
Address to send the application form
3-1-1 Sannomaru, Naka-ku, Nagoya 460-8508
Vaccination Certificate Section, COVID-19 Infectious Disease Control Office, Health and Welfare Bureau, Nagoya City Hall
Required documents
[Required documents]
Application form (can be downloaded from the Nagoya City official website)
A copy of your passport (valid as of the date of travel)
A copy of the coupon (be sure to copy the vaccination ticket number)*1
A copy of the Japanese standard vaccination certificate or vaccination record (a copy of the Japanese standard vaccination certificate is not required if it is included in the copy of the coupon)
A self-addressed envelope (be sure to affix a stamp and include your return address and name)
A copy of identity verification documents that can confirm the return address (copy of My Number card, driver's license, various health insurance cards, etc.) *2
If you do not have your coupon because you have lost it or for another reason, or if the sticker on the vaccination ticket number has peeled off, please submit a document that can confirm your My Number (personal number card, notification card, copy of your residence certificate with your My Number, etc.).
If you do not have any of these, please submit a copy of a document that shows the address registered as your residence at the time of vaccination (if you have moved, a copy of your residence certificate that shows your previous address, etc.).
If you enclose a copy of your health insurance card as an identification document, please black out the symbols/numbers and insurance number.
[Documents that may be required]
If your passport contains your maiden name, another surname, or another forename, a copy of identity verification documents that can confirm your identity (copy of your My Number card, driver's license, family register, residence certificate, etc., with your maiden name written together)
If the request is made by an agent, a power of attorney signed by the principal
About the self-addressed envelope (with your address and a stamp)
In principle, the return address should be the address of the applicant.
There is no specification of envelope size.
Please check the website of Japan Post Co., Ltd. for details on postage.
If the stamp is missing, we will not be able to send the certificate, so be sure not to forget to attach a stamp.
If you wish to have your certificate sent by express, please affix stamps for express delivery and write "express" in red on the envelope.
Inquiries
Inquiries about vaccination certificates
Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare COVID-19 Vaccine Call Center
Telephone number: 0120-761-770 (toll-free)
Reception hours: 9:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. (also open on Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays)
Inquiries about vaccination certificate issuance procedures
Nagoya COVID-19 Vaccine Call Center
Telephone number: 050-3135-2252
Reception hours: 9:00 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. (weekdays only)
For details, please see the official website of Nagoya City.
