what do you want to do today
I need the documents necessary to extend my visa
I want the documents necessary for the procedure to bring my family to Japan
i want to pay my taxes
I need proof of income
I want to consult about tax payment
I want tax payment certificate
When submitting to the Immigration Bureau, both income proof and tax payment proof are required.
Tax exempt persons need a tax exemption certificate.
Do you have the documents you received from the Immigration Bureau?
Whose certificate do you need?
Please see this sample and fill out the application form.
Can you talk on the phone with your family and friends who can speak Japanese now?
Please come to this window again with someone who understands Japanese.
I will connect the videophone now.
You need to go to the 〇〇 city tax office (〇〇 branch office).
What is your relationship with this person?
A power of attorney is required if someone other than the applicant visits the counter.
What year do you need the certificate?
Example: The 2017 income certificate proves the income in 2016.
May I issue a certificate for the newest fiscal year?
How many do you need?
Please show me your ID.
You cannot proceed without an ID.
Where were you on January 1st of this year?
Please get your certificate at ○○.
If you lived outside of Japan on January 1st of this year, the certificate cannot be issued.
Were you working in the year XX?
Is there anything that shows the annual income of the person who needs proof?
(withholding slip, pay slip, etc.)
Do you have other documents?
Please complete this form.
Your income is written
Municipal tax and prefectural tax are 0 yen.
you are in arrears with your taxes.
If you pay the unpaid tax now, you can issue a tax payment certificate immediately.
Will you pay your taxes soon?
After paying the tax at the bank counter, please come back to this counter with the receipt.
After paying the tax at the General Affairs Section, please come back to this window with the receipt.
After paying the tax at the counter on floor ○, please come back to this counter with the receipt.
Please show me the receipt.
Municipal tax and prefectural tax are 0 yen, so we cannot issue a tax payment certificate.
If the "unpaid amount" is the same as the "unpaid amount", it will not be considered delinquent.
Your municipal/prefectural tax is deducted from your salary by the company you work for and paid to Nagoya City.
I paid this tax.
Please pay the fee.
The procedure is over.
delegator
address
family name
telephone number
Seal of the person (person who wants proof)
The person (person who wants proof)
Please write your address, name and phone number.
mandate
Write the name of the proof you need and the number (required).
agent
person coming to the window
Whose certification do you need?
person at the window
spouse (wife or husband)
parent
Child
Support application
pension application
Public housing (income declaration)
Financing (borrowing funds)
Receipt of child allowance
Submit to the Immigration Bureau
Application for school assistance
Application for high school tuition support and reduction of private high school tuition fees
Scholarship application
Special support education enrollment encouragement/private kindergarten enrollment encouragement application
Specific medical expenses application
Applying for a visa
bid
Submission to public offices (other than bidding)
guarantor
Liquor sales license application
Please write the names of the family members you support.
relationship (relationship)
Please write down your living situation.
Being someone's dependent.
the person who supports you
student
school name
Under medical treatment
unemployed
Please write the name of whose certification you need.
Please write the address of the person who needs proof.
Please write your date of birth.
Please write your name
Please write your address.
Please write down your phone number.
Application for tuition fee exemption for various schools such as universities
Application for High-Cost Medical Care Expenses/Limit Application Certification
I will give you a proof of 〇〇.
