Guidance of "support system of single-parent family"
For details, please ask the contact.
Inquiries will be handled in Japanese.
receive benefits and pensions
Child Rearing Allowance/Nagoya City Single Parent Family Allowance/Aichi Prefecture Orphan Allowance
If you are raising a child under the age of 18 by yourself due to divorce, unmarriage, death, etc., you will be paid.
* Including cases where the father or mother has a certain disability.
* If the child is 18 years old, it is eligible from the birthday to March 31st.
Inquiries: Ward Office Public Welfare and Child Affairs Section Public Welfare and Children Section Branch Resident Welfare Section Protection and Children Section
child allowance
This allowance is paid to those who are raising children up to the third year of junior high school.
Inquiries: Ward Office Public Welfare and Child Affairs Section Public Welfare and Children Section Branch Resident Welfare Section Protection and Children Section
Survivors Basic Pension
This benefit is paid to a person who has been enrolled in the National Pension or Old-age Basic Pension for 25 years or more and whose spouse lives with a child under the age of 18.
* If the child is 18 years old, it is eligible from the birthday to March 31st.
Inquiries: Ward Office Insurance and Pension Section Management Section Branch Office Ward Citizen Welfare Section Insurance Section
reduce financial burden
Subsidies for medical expenses for single-parent families
Self-payment of medical expenses will be subsidized.
Inquiries: Ward Office Insurance and Pension Section Insurance Section Branch Office Ward Citizens Welfare Section Insurance Section
Reduction of national health insurance premiums
Widows and single parents under the tax law are exempt from paying national health insurance premiums.
*Conditions apply.
Inquiries: Ward Office Insurance and Pension Section Insurance Section Branch Office Ward Citizens Welfare Section Insurance Section
National health insurance fee exemption/deferral
Widows or single parents under the tax law are exempted or deferred from paying national pension insurance premiums.
There are conditions.
Inquiries: Ward Office Insurance and Pension Section Management Section Branch Office Ward Citizen Welfare Section Insurance Section
Reduction of water and sewerage charges
Water and sewerage charges are reduced for households receiving Child Rearing Allowance.
* Limited to cases where the recipient himself/herself has a contract.
Inquiries: Ward Office Public Welfare and Child Affairs Section Public Welfare and Children Section Branch Resident Welfare Section Protection and Children Section
JR commuter pass special discount
Households receiving child-rearing allowances can receive a 30% discount by submitting a certificate issued by a ward office or branch office and purchasing a JR commuter pass.
*Student commuter passes are not eligible.
Inquiries: Ward Office Public Welfare and Child Affairs Section Public Welfare and Children Section Branch Resident Welfare Section Protection and Children Section
receive tax exemption
Those who meet the conditions under the tax law can receive the application of the tax reduction system.
In addition, those who meet the conditions may be exempted from or exempted from inhabitant tax (city/prefectural tax).
If you want to apply, please do not forget to declare it at the year-end tax adjustment or final tax return.
Contact: City tax office of your ward
get a loan
Motherless Fatherless Widow Welfare Fund Loan
You can borrow necessary expenses for studying at school, acquiring skills, finding a job, moving house, etc.
Inquiries: Ward Office Public Welfare and Child Affairs Section Public Welfare and Children Section Branch Resident Welfare Section Protection and Children Section
Find a job/skill up
Advanced Vocational Training Promotion Benefit
If you are studying at a training institution in order to acquire the qualifications necessary for employment or changing jobs, such as a nurse, you will be paid for a certain period of time as living expenses.
Inquiries: Ward Office Public Welfare and Child Affairs Section Public Welfare and Children Section Branch Resident Welfare Section Protection and Children Section
Advanced Vocational Training Promotion Fund Loan
If you aim to acquire qualifications while receiving the above 10 benefits, you can borrow the money you need when you enter school and when you get a job.
Inquiries: Ward Office Public Welfare and Child Affairs Section Public Welfare and Children Section Branch Resident Welfare Section Protection and Children Section
Independence Support Education and Training Benefits
Part of the tuition fee is subsidized when taking courses to acquire qualifications such as nursing care.
*Conditions apply.
Please consult us before starting the course.
Inquiries: Ward Office Public Welfare and Child Affairs Section Public Welfare and Children Section Branch Resident Welfare Section Protection and Children Section
High School Graduation Certificate Exam Pass Support Benefits
Part of the tuition fee will be subsidized when taking a course in order to pass the high school graduation certificate exam.
*Conditions apply.
Please consult us before starting the course.
Inquiries: Ward Office Public Welfare and Child Affairs Section Public Welfare and Children Section Branch Resident Welfare Section Protection and Children Section
Employment support workshop
We hold workshops to acquire skills and knowledge that are advantageous for employment and career change, such as personal computers and nursing care.
Inquiries: Ward Office Public Welfare and Child Affairs Section Public Welfare and Children Section Branch Resident Welfare Section Protection and Children Section
Application for the sale of tobacco
When applying for the sale of tobacco, the criteria for permission will be relaxed.
Contact: Tokai Local Finance Bureau Property Management Department Property Management Division TEL 951-2546
job consultation
Hello Work near you
Some Hello Work offices have interpreters.
Please see the homepage.
Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare website
https://www.mhlw.go.jp/content/000592865.pdf
Joinas.Nagoya
We help single-parent families find jobs.
TEL 252-8824
find a place to live
Recruitment of public housing
Municipal housing and prefectural housing are recruiting for single-parent households in addition to general recruitment.
Inquiries: Ward Office Public Welfare and Child Affairs Section Public Welfare and Children Section Branch Resident Welfare Section Protection and Children Section
Mother and child life support facility
This is a facility for children under the age of 18 and their mothers who need protection.
Inquiries: Ward Office Public Welfare and Child Affairs Section Public Welfare and Children Section Branch Resident Welfare Section Protection and Children Section
Private rental housing move-in consultation (reservation required)
We provide moving-in consultations for child-rearing households who wish to move into private rental housing.
Inquiries: Sakae Citizen Service Corner Housing Counter "Nagoya City Housing Consultation Corner" 3-5-12 Sakae, Naka-ku Sakae Mori no Underground Shopping Mall South 4th Street South Side TEL 242-4555
receive child care support
Short-term admission life support for children (short stay)
If it is temporarily difficult to raise a child at home due to social reasons such as parental illness, in principle, the child will be looked after at an infant home, children's home, or foster home for up to one week.
Inquiries: Ward Office Public Welfare and Child Affairs Section Public Welfare and Children Section Branch Resident Welfare Section Protection and Children Section
Life support for single-parent families, etc.
For single-parent households and widows who are having trouble with daily life
Living assistance: A helper visits your home to help with housework and nursing care.
Child-rearing support: Temporarily take care of your child at a designated child-care facility.
Inquiries: Ward Office Public Welfare and Child Affairs Section Public Welfare and Children Section Branch Resident Welfare Section Protection and Children Section
Diverse childcare
If you need childcare for your child due to work or other reasons, you can use a nursery school.
There are holiday daycare, extended daycare, nighttime daycare, sick child daycare, and post-sick child daycare.
Inquiries: Ward Office Public Welfare and Child Affairs Section Public Welfare and Children Section Branch Resident Welfare Section Protection and Children Section
Custody childcare in kindergarten
Temporary custody childcare will be provided at the kindergarten or certified child center that the child attends.
Contact: Each kindergarten certified child institution
temporary storage
When childcare at home becomes temporarily difficult due to unforeseen circumstances, or in order to reduce the mental and physical burden on guardians due to childcare fatigue, we temporarily take care of children.
contact information:
temporary storage
Ward Office Public Welfare and Children Section Public Welfare and Children Section
Branch Resident Welfare Division Protection and Child Section
Carefree parenting support
headquarters
TEL 962-5103
Child care support base
Each child care support base
Secure your child's education expenses
Support for attending school, etc.
Depending on the type of school your child attends, you will receive financial support for school expenses.
Inquiries: Kindergarten/school your child attends
Scholarships, etc. (Japan Student Services Organization)
There are grant-type scholarships and tuition exemptions for those who attend universities and junior colleges.
Contact: School your child attends
Japan Student Services Organization website https://www.jasso.go.jp/
Ensuring opportunities for children to learn and have social experiences
Learning support for junior high school students
We hold study sessions tailored to each student's learning level with the aim of developing good study habits and preparing for high school.
Contact: Child Future Planning Office, Children and Youth Bureau TEL972-3199
Creating places for children in single-parent families
For children from the 5th grade of elementary school to the 3rd grade of junior high school, we have set up a place where you can casually stop by, chat, do your homework, spend time slowly, and participate in events.
Contact: Child Future Planning Office, Children and Youth Bureau TEL972-3199
Cultural and sports exchange
We hold events where you can experience the world of professionals, such as sports and music, so that you can interact with parents and children and between single parents, and provide opportunities for future career choices.
Contact: Child Future Planning Office, Children and Youth Bureau TEL972-2522
Single parent family rest home
Fees are subsidized when using lodging facilities such as Kokuminshukusha Okuhamanako and day-trip facilities such as Legoland.
Inquiries: Ward Office Public Welfare and Child Affairs Section Public Welfare and Children Section Branch Resident Welfare Section Protection and Children Section
Discounted use of municipal facilities
City facilities such as the Higashiyama Zoo and Botanical Gardens and the City Science Museum can be used free of charge.
Inquiries: Ward Office Public Welfare and Child Affairs Section Public Welfare and Children Section Branch Resident Welfare Section Protection and Children Section
