Is that sound okay?
What is life noise?
Household noise refers to sounds that occur in household life, such as the sound of the TV, the sound of doors opening and closing, and the sound of the piano.
Life noise is a sound that occurs in our daily life, so we can't say that we don't emit it at all.
Sound is perceived differently by different people.
"Sounds that cannot be avoided" or "sounds that are pleasant to me" may be perceived as "noisy sounds" or "unpleasant sounds" by those around me.
It is important to pay attention to the sounds you make on a daily basis, to avoid making unnecessary sounds, and to devise ways to reduce the sounds.
If you have a good relationship with your neighbors, such as greeting them on a daily basis, noise from daily life may not be a problem.
Live a life that is considerate of your surroundings
Sound from audio equipment (stereo, TV, piano, etc.)
Pay attention to the time of use, such as avoiding early morning and late night.
Close the windows, adjust the volume, use headphones, etc. to prevent the sound from leaking outside.
Use a soundproof sash to prevent sound from leaking out.
Sounds of home appliances and household equipment (air conditioners, vacuum cleaners, etc.)
When installing an outdoor unit, try to choose a location that is as far away from neighbors as possible, and if necessary, soundproof it with a block wall.
When buying home appliances, try to choose ones that make less noise.
Avoid using it early in the morning or late at night.
Sounds in the early morning and at night (idling of cars and motorcycles, etc.)
Avoid idling or revving your car or motorcycle early in the morning or late at night.
Avoid cleaning or doing laundry early in the morning or late at night.
Other sounds (sounds of opening and closing doors and windows, etc.)
Be careful not to make a loud noise when opening and closing doors and windows.
Walk quietly indoors.
It sounds great downstairs.
Publisher: Nagoya City Environment Bureau Regional Environmental Measures Department Air Quality Measures Division
Phone: 972-2674
Fax: 972-4155
