Parent
Nagoya City Board of Education
Notice of school attendance support continuation procedure
(For September 2020 to August 2021)
If you are currently receiving school attendance assistance, the period of receipt is until August 2020.
If you would like to continue to receive assistance from September 2020 to August 2021, please submit the separate “Application for Continuation of School Attendance Assistance” to the school where your child attends school.
Submission Deadline
Submit to school by Wednesday, June 10
If you cannot submit by June 10 (Wednesday), please notify the school that you will submit it at a later date.
Those who have submitted complete documents to the school by September 24th (Thursday) will be allowed to continue their studies.
If there is a delay or incompleteness in the submission of documents, continuation certification will not be granted on September 1st.
Please check before submitting.
【Notes】
If you have two or more children who would like assistance, please apply for each.
The certification will be based on the contents of the application.
Please be sure to contact the school as soon as possible if there is a change in your household status after applying (change of guardian, remarriage, moving, living with grandparents, etc.).
If, at a later date, it is discovered that the submitted documents contain corrections or errors and do not satisfy the certification requirements, the certification may be revoked.
If there are any doubts about the contents of the application, we may confirm the household situation, income, etc. ex officio.
Payment details (scheduled as of April 2020)
September to December 2020
Payment around October 26
January to March 2021
Payment around January 25
April to August 2021
Payment around June 1
School supplies, etc.
1st grade elementary school
4,320 yen
3,240 yen
[Please see the new school year column]
2nd to 6th grade elementary school
5,040 yen
3,780 yen
6,680 yen
Junior high school 1st year
8,200 yen
6,150 yen
10,690 yen
2nd and 3rd year junior high school
9,000 yen
6,750 yen
11,560 yen
Enrollment reserve
6th grade
60,000 yen
Paid around February 25
Graduation album fee, etc.
Elementary 6/Junior 3
Provided to students who receive school assistance as of March 1 and purchase graduation albums, etc.
actual cost
School lunch fee
all grades
Payment from the school principal to the organization that implements the school lunch (It will not be paid directly to the guardian.)
School lunches at junior high schools pay parents the actual amount of food and drink
Payment for April is around 6/1, March is around 3/31, other months are paid around 25th of the following month.
actual cost
Outdoor activity fee
5th grade, 2nd grade
Provided to children who received school assistance at the time of implementation and participated in outdoor activities
Payment will be made after implementation (usually 2-3 months later).
actual cost
School trip expenses
Elementary 6/Junior 3
Provided to children who received school assistance at the time of implementation and participated in school excursions
Payment will be made after implementation (usually 2-3 months later).
actual cost
School transportation fee
Due to special educational considerations, actual expenses will be paid to children and students who use public transportation to commute to schools with a commuting distance of 4km or more for elementary school or 6km or more for junior high school (commuting to special needs classes regardless of distance.)
Payment months are July, October, and January
Medical expenses for school illness
The school principal will pay medical expenses for school illnesses treated under the direction of the school (they will not be paid directly to parents).
School Life Management Guidance Table Document Fee
all grades
Document fees for school life management guidance charts prepared by doctors regarding food allergies and heart/kidney-related diseases are paid.
Receipt from medical institution required
April and May will be paid around June 25th, other months will be paid around the 25th of the following month
Actual cost (maximum amount 3,000 yen)
* For households receiving public assistance, only school excursion expenses and medical expenses for school illnesses are subsidized items for tuition assistance.
Other expenses are covered by public assistance and are provided by the Social Welfare Office (Ward Office Public Welfare and Child Affairs Division).
*School diseases include trachoma, conjunctivitis, otitis media, chronic sinusitis, tooth decay, adenoids, parasitic diseases, and certain skin diseases.
Before undergoing treatment, be sure to receive a "treatment statement" from the school in advance and bring it to the medical institution.
In addition, if you have a child medical certificate or a single-parent family medical certificate, that will be given priority.
*Payment timing may vary slightly.
About those who are eligible for school attendance assistance and the required documents
If you have signed your name and affixed your seal in the "Consent" column of the Application for Continuation of School Assistance, the Board of Education will confirm the necessary information for continuation approval. is not required.
However, if the necessary information cannot be obtained as a result of checking with the board of education, such as when you have moved to Nagoya City after January 2, 2020, or when you have not reported your income, please contact us separately. Submit the required documents.
If there is a person in your household who lives on a different address due to a job away from home, etc., the Board of Education will not be able to obtain the necessary information, so we will ask you to submit the necessary documents.
In addition, if you do not sign your name and affix your seal in the "Consent" column, please attach the required documents for each of the following categories.
Application item
Attached documents (for example, if you do not sign your name or seal in the “Consent column”)
Place of certificate issuance
1
Persons requiring protection as stipulated in the Public Assistance Law
unnecessary
2
Those whose public assistance has been suspended or abolished since April 2, 2019
Not required (principle)
*This does not apply if the application was abolished due to a change in household (remarriage, etc.).
3
Those who received Child Rearing Allowance
Child Rearing Allowance Certificate
*A copy of the page stamped by the head of the social welfare office is required.
* It is necessary that the receipt period is [November 2019 or later].
* Child Allowance, Single Parent Family Allowance, Aichi Prefecture Orphan Allowance, and Special Child Rearing Allowance are not applicable.
Ward Office Public Welfare and Children Division
Branch Resident Welfare Division
(Social Welfare Office)
Four
Those with financial difficulties
Municipal tax prefectural tax certificate [2nd year of Reiwa (income for 2019)] (copy acceptable)
*Necessary for all households (excluding those who are dependents under the Income Tax Law and those who are high school students or younger)
Municipal tax office/branch office, ward office/branch tax office
You can apply for this item if the total income of all households in 2019 is less than the income standard amount below.
household size
two person household
3 person household
4 person household
5 person household
6 person household
Income standard amount
2,469,000 yen
2,769,000 yen
3,146,000 yen
3,726,000 yen
4,097,000 yen
(Estimated income)
(3.76 million yen)
(4.14 million yen)
(4.6 million yen)
(5.33 million yen)
(5.79 million yen)
For households with 7 or more people, 489,000 yen is added to the standard income for households with 6 people for each additional person.
The income standard amount in the upper row is the certification standard.
The amount in the bottom ( ) is a guideline for the income of salaried workers.
If your income has drastically decreased due to unavoidable circumstances such as injury or illness of those who maintain your livelihood, unemployment (dismissal, bankruptcy), etc., or if your income has drastically decreased due to the impact of the coronavirus infection, your income exceeds the standard amount. may also be considered.
Please consult your school.
(Retirement age and voluntary retirement are not applicable)
Note 1: A “household” for tuition assistance refers to all people living in the same house.
Grandparents, etc. who live in the same house are considered to be in the same household, even if they have different livelihoods and residence records.
The same household includes those who do not live in the same house due to work away from home, etc., but maintain the livelihood of the household.
Please list all members of the same household in the household status column of the application form.
Note 2: All members of the household must apply to the same item (except application item 3).
others
Approval and payment from April to August 2021 are based on the assumption that the FY2021 budget will be passed.
Please note that depending on the situation, it may not be authorized or paid as described in this guide.
The period of support for children graduating from junior high school this year is until March 2021.
If there is a non-payment of the school fees that are covered by the school attendance assistance, the school may pay the fees even if an application for bank transfer has been made.
Based on the consent, the Board of Education inspected and confirmed the information (basic resident register information, public assistance information, child rearing allowance information, income information) necessary for the examination of eligibility for attendance at school assistance, and as a result, there were doubts about the application contents. In some cases, we may check the circumstances.
*If you have any questions, please contact the Academic Affairs Division of the Nagoya City Board of Education (TEL 972-3217 FAX 972-4175) or the school you attend.
