Announcement of 2020 Special Support Education Enrollment Incentives
For children with disabilities who are enrolled in classes for special needs at elementary and junior high schools in Nagoya City, the "Special Support Education Enrollment Scholarship" system, which provides expenses for school supplies, school lunches, etc., according to household income, has been introduced. You can use it.
Target audience
Those who fall under any of the following 1 to 3
Children in special needs classes
Children and students in commuter classrooms (those other than those who fall under 3.
Only transportation expenses (commuting expenses) will be paid. )
*Also applies to classes at prefectural special support schools.
Students in regular classes (including commuter classrooms) who fall under the degree of disability stipulated in Article 22-3 of the Order for Enforcement of the School Education Law (See the reverse side for details.)
Subsidized expenses
Category
primary school
junior high school
School lunch fee
Actual cost x 1/2
Actual cost x 1/2
Transportation expenses (commuting expenses)
Actual cost (Note 1)
Actual cost (Note 1)
Exchange study transportation fee
Actual cost (Note 1)
Actual cost (Note 1)
School trip expenses
Actual cost × 1/2 (upper limit 10,790 yen)
Actual cost × 1/2 (maximum 28,860 yen)
Off-campus activity fee (with accommodation)
Actual cost × 1/2 (maximum 3,422 yen)
Actual cost × 1/2 (maximum 3,540 yen)
Off-campus activity fee (without accommodation)
800 yen
1,155 yen
Expenses for purchasing school supplies/commuting supplies
Actual cost × 1/2 (Note 2) (maximum 5,820 yen)
Actual cost × 1/2 (Note 2) (maximum 11,370 yen)
Purchase fee for school supplies and commuting supplies for new students (1st grade only)
Actual cost × 1/2 (Note 2) (upper limit 25,555 yen) (Note 3)
Actual cost × 1/2 (Note 2) (upper limit 28,990 yen) (Note 3)
(Note 1) ②③ will be “Actual cost x 1/2” if the certification stage is Stage III.
(Note 2) ⑦ and ⑧ will be paid according to the purchase results, and a receipt (address, product name, amount) will be required.
(⑦ is for items purchased from February 2020 to January 2021, and ⑧ is for items purchased by April 2020.
However, due to the temporary closure due to the new coronavirus infection, if the school supplies and school supplies necessary for entering ⑧ are purchased after April, receipts until the end of June will be covered. )
(Note 3) The upper limit has been increased from the previous fiscal year.
Accreditation Stage Calculation Criteria and Subsidized Expenses
The certification stage is determined by the ratio of household income and public assistance standard demand amount.
The accreditation level is determined each fiscal year.
Certification stage
Calculation standard
Subsidized expenses
Ⅰ
Income amount is less than 1.5 times demand amount
Ⅱ
The amount of income is 1.5 times or more and less than 2.5 times the amount of demand
①～⑧
Ⅲ
Income amount is 2.5 times or more of demand amount
②、③
Guideline for Stages I and II (income amount less than 2.5 times the standard demand amount for public assistance)
Your income is approximately:
Even if the number of people in a household is the same, the amount of income varies depending on factors such as age composition.
Household size
two person household
3 person household
4 person household
5 person household
6 person household
household income
4,634,000 yen
6,044,000 yen
7,119,000 yen
7,960,000 yen
9,219,000 yen
(annual income of salaried workers)
(7,292,000 yen)
(9,055,000 yen)
(10,375,000 yen)
(11,364,000 yen)
(12,845,000 yen)
In addition to the "School Enrollment Scholarship for Special Needs Education" system, there is a "School Assistance" system that provides assistance with the cost of school lunches and school supplies for those who are in financial difficulty.
It is not possible to receive the same payment items for school attendance assistance and special support education enrollment incentives at the same time.
We recommend that those who are eligible for school attendance assistance choose the school enrollment assistance, as the school attendance assistance is more generous.
However, (3) exchange study transportation expenses are paid only by the special support education enrollment incentive fee, so an application is required.
Among children and students in regular classes (including commuter classrooms), those who fall under the degree of disability prescribed in Article 22-3 of the Order for Enforcement of the School Education Act (eligible persons 3 on the front) Criteria for
Division
Degree of disability (Criteria under Article 22-3 of the Enforcement Order of the School Education Act)
Judgment method
Required documents
visually impaired
Those with corrected visual acuity of less than 0.3 in both eyes or those with severe visual impairment other than visual acuity, to the extent that normal visual recognition of letters, figures, etc. is impossible or extremely difficult* even with the use of a magnifying glass. of
* It takes a considerable amount of time to visually recognize normal letters and figures, and special support and consideration is required in teaching all subjects, and special guidance is systematic to improve and overcome disabilities. necessary on an ongoing basis
Those with a physical disability certificate grade 2 or higher, or those with a physical disability certificate grade 3 to 6 that have been diagnosed by a doctor as meeting the criteria on the left.
Copy of physical disability certificate
Doctor's certificate (based on the format specified by Nagoya City)
(② is required only for physical disability certificate grades 3 to 6)
hearing impaired
Those who have a hearing level of approximately 60 decibels or more in both ears and are unable or extremely difficult to understand normal speech even with the use of hearing aids or cochlear implants.
People with intellectual disabilities
Intellectual developmental delay, difficulty communicating with others, and frequent need for assistance with activities of daily living
Those whose degree of intellectual developmental delay does not reach level 1, and whose adaptation to social life is extremely difficult.
Nursing judgment of welfare notebook is A
Copy of welfare booklet
handicapped
Physical disabilities that make it impossible or difficult to perform activities such as walking*, eating, putting on and taking off clothes, excreting, and basic activities for learning activities such as drawing, even with the use of assistive devices.
For those whose physical disability does not reach level 1, constant medical observation and guidance (constant medical observation is required within a specific period, and each movement and instruction of daily life from waking up to going to bed) to the extent that it requires guidance and training on movement
*Walking does not include movement in a wheelchair.
Those with a physical disability certificate grade 2 or higher, or those with a physical disability certificate grade 3 to 6 that have been diagnosed by a doctor as meeting the criteria on the left.
Copy of physical disability certificate
Doctor's certificate (based on the format specified by Nagoya City)
(② is required only for physical disability certificate grades 3 to 6)
sick person
Chronic respiratory disease, kidney disease, neurological disease, malignant neoplasm or other disease condition that requires continuous medical care*1 or lifestyle restrictions*2
A state of physical weakness that continues to require lifestyle restrictions*2
*1 Diagnosis and treatment centered on doctors.
It does not include routine drug intake or self-injection.
*2 A disease that significantly limits exercise, daily activities (walking, bathing, reading, learning, etc.) and the quality and quantity of meals.
Diagnosed by a doctor as meeting the criteria on the left
Doctor's certificate (based on the format specified by Nagoya City)
For those with multiple disabilities, the one with the most severe disability will be considered.
【procedure】
We will inform you about the application for special needs classes and regular guidance classes around the beginning of June.
For other children and students, please contact the school if you wish to receive the allowance.
Also, if you need a doctor's certificate, please receive the necessary documents at school, bring them to a medical institution, and request a medical certificate.
For details on the system, please contact the school you attend or the Academic Affairs Division of the Nagoya City Board of Education (TEL 972-3217).
Nagoya City Board of Education R2.5
