For single-parent families
Problem consultation form
Do you have any problems with your work, child-rearing, life, etc.?
Ward offices and branch offices have a variety of counselors to help you think about and resolve your problems.
It doesn't matter how trivial it is.
First of all, do you want to talk to the counselor?
If necessary, we can also cooperate with other consultation desks.
Please let us know what you are having trouble with and what you would like to discuss.
Please submit this consultation form to the ward office/branch office together with the enclosed current situation report.
In addition, the contents written in the consultation form will not be used as materials for determining the payment of child rearing allowance.
Strictly confidential.
Do you have any problems or would like to discuss any of the following?
Please put a circle in ( ) for all applicable items (multiple answers allowed).
If you do not have any particular problems, please circle "2 Do not wish" in Q4.
Things related to work and income
i want to find a job
I think I have to work, but I don't have the energy to look for it
I am currently working but would like to work under better conditions
Concerned about interpersonal relationships at work
would like to qualify
Other (please specify)
Things related to health and life
Poor physical condition
sometimes mentally unstable
I can't afford to do household chores
have trouble with family
I'm having trouble with my housing
I want to review my household budget
I'm having trouble getting child support
I am having trouble repaying my debt
Difficulties with language and communication
Other (please specify)
Children
Anxiety about raising children
Feeling burdened by child rearing
I feel uneasy because my child has a chronic disease or disability
I can't keep up with my studies at school
don't want to go to school
tend to withdraw
There is not much parent-child conversation, and the child's feelings are not understood
I feel anxious about my child's future
I'm having trouble with the cost of going on to higher education
Other (please specify)
At the ward office/branch office, we are thinking about what we can do together to solve your problems and worries.
Would you like to consult with a counselor?
hope
2 No (Reason: )
*If you have already consulted with another organization, please tell us where to consult.
(Contact: )
≪Please enter your contact information≫
Furigana
name
telephone number
Time when it is easy to answer the phone, such as work lunch break
(Weekdays 10:00 am to 4:00 pm)
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, anytime
: to :
*Please note that the ward office or branch office may contact you depending on the content of your answers, regardless of whether or not you wish to do so.
*Depending on the content of your inquiry, we may ask you to view information related to Child Rearing Allowance or refer to related organizations.
Ward Office/Branch Office
*Please do not write anything
(Certificate number: )
