Important notice
Nagoya city
Guidance of child care household life support special benefit
We will provide new benefits to support child-rearing households!
Eligible person
Those who meet both ① and ② (*Excluding those who received benefits for single parent households)
Parents who are raising children under the age of 18 as of March 31, 2021 (under 20 in the case of children with disabilities) (* Newborns born before the end of February 2022 are also eligible. )
Those who are exempt from 2021 residence tax (per capita rate)
or
Those whose income has changed suddenly after January 1, 2021, and whose income is equivalent to exemption from resident tax
Payment amount
50,000 yen per child
There may or may not be an application for payment.
Please be sure to check the payment procedure on the back side.
If it turns out that the same child has received multiple payments, you will need to refund them.
*If you would like more information on how to apply or to have the application form sent to you, please call us at the number below.
Where to submit the application form / Inquiries
Nagoya City Hall "Special Benefits for Child-rearing Households Living Support (for non-single-parent households)" (call center)
〒461-8799 Nagoya Higashi Post Office (6th floor of Daiichi Fuji Building, 35-16 Daikancho, Higashi-ku, Nagoya-shi)
Telephone 052-979-2415
FAX 052-933-1118
Reception hours: 9:00-17:30
Open every day from July 1st to September 30th, including weekends and holidays
Benefit payment procedure
Recipients of Child Allowance or Special Child Rearing Allowance for April 2021 who are exempt from residence tax
Benefits can be received without application.
After sending out the information on the benefits, we plan to transfer the money to the account that provides the child allowance or special child rearing allowance in mid-July (around the 19th).
If you live in a municipality outside of Nagoya as of January 1, 2021, the payment will be made in late July (around 29th).
Those who are newly receiving child allowances, such as those raising children born between April 2, 2021 and February 28, 2022, who are exempt from inhabitant tax
Benefits can be received without application.
After sending out the information on the benefits, we plan to transfer the money to the bank account where the child allowance is paid sequentially after the end of July.
People other than the above (e.g. people raising only high school students, people whose income has changed suddenly)
An application is required to receive benefits.
(Application deadline: February 28, 2022 postmark valid)
Please fill in the necessary information on the application form, etc., and submit it by mail along with the required documents to the application submission address listed on the front.
For those who meet the payment requirements for benefits, we will check the application details and transfer it to the designated account.
If you would like to have the application form sent to you, please contact the contact information listed on the front.
(You can also download it from the Nagoya City official website)
Those eligible for benefits
Application procedure for benefits
Please submit the application documents, etc. by mail to the person in charge of "Special Benefits for Child-rearing Household Life Support (for non-single-parent households)".
Transfer to designated account
After confirming that the application documents submitted meet the payment requirements for the benefits, the funds will be transferred.
Nagoya city
Please be careful about "transfer fraud" and "fraudulent personal information" of "child-rearing household life support special benefit".
If you receive a suspicious phone call or mail from your home or workplace, etc., claiming to be from a prefecture, municipality, or Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare (an employee of the Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare), contact your municipality, the nearest police station, or a police consultation service. Please contact us by phone (#9110).
