To parents with children
School guide for foreigners
~ What kind of place is Japanese school? ~
[About elementary and junior high schools in Japan]
Foreign children are accepted free of charge in the same way as Japanese students, and the opportunity to receive the same education as Japanese is guaranteed.
You can attend the Nagoya municipal elementary school or junior high school that is determined by your place of residence.
About school attendance period of elementary school, junior high school
In Japan, children can enter elementary school from the first April after they turn 6 years old and receive 6 years of education.
After graduating from elementary school, children can enter junior high school and receive three years of education.
In addition, many students who graduate from junior high school go on to higher education.
Destinations include high schools, specialized training colleges (general and advanced courses), and technical colleges.
In addition, some people find employment after graduating from junior high school.
Parents' expense burden
Public elementary and junior high school tuition is free.
In addition, elementary and junior high school textbooks are distributed free of charge.
Parents are also responsible for school lunches, school supplies, etc.
About school attendance assistance
For financial reasons, we provide a school attendance assistance project to assist with the cost of school lunches, etc. for those who are having trouble sending their children to elementary and junior high schools.
About health checkup
It is held at the school I attend every year.
Children who have completed procedures to enter Nagoya City Elementary School in the following April will have a pre-school health checkup at the elementary school from October to November before entering school.
The schedule and other information will be sent from the elementary school where you applied for admission at a later date.
[Regarding support after admission]
In Nagoya City, there is a Japanese Education Consultation Center for those who want to consult about school or study.
If you would like to know more about the school, or if you have any problems, such as an interpreter, please feel free to contact us.
In addition, we have prepared an environment where students can study with peace of mind, such as classrooms for learning basic Japanese (daily conversation, etc.) and classrooms for learning Japanese necessary for studying subjects.
If you wish to enroll in one of these classes, please consult with your school's teacher.
[Contact]
About school attendance support system
Board of Education Academic Affairs Division Enrollment Support Section
Phone number 052-972-3217
Admission procedures
Please inquire at the Citizens' Section of your local ward office.
About school life and learning Japanese after admission
Japanese Language Education Center
Address 〒461-0001 1-1-4 Izumi, Higashi-ku, Nagoya-shi Nagoya City Education Hall 3F
Phone number 052-961-0418
