Guidance concerning the new coronavirus vaccination certificate
This will be issued to those who have been vaccinated against the new coronavirus and who need a document proving that they have been vaccinated in addition to the vaccination certificate due to overseas travel or other circumstances.
For the time being, this vaccination certificate is limited to overseas travel.
In Japan, even if you do not have this certificate, you can confirm the fact that you have been vaccinated with a vaccination certificate.
How to apply
We only accept applications by mail.
There is no fee for issuing a certificate, except for the postage required for application and issuance.
*If you are planning to leave Japan in the near future and it is not possible to issue a certificate by mail, please contact the call center.
Flow of certificate application
Mail the required documents to the address below.
(Submitted required documents will not be returned.)
Check the contents of the documents at the city hall.
The certificate will be returned from the city hall.
In principle, the certificate will be prepared and sent to you within about a week after the application arrives. I'll enjoy having this.
Also, it will take several days for the application to be mailed, so please allow plenty of time when applying.
Address to send the application form
3-1-1 Sannomaru, Naka-ku, Nagoya 460-8508
Nagoya City Hall Health and Welfare Bureau New Coronavirus Infectious Disease Control Office Vaccination Certificate Section
Required documents
[Required documents]
Application form (can be downloaded from the Nagoya City official website)
A copy of your passport (valid as of the date of travel)
A copy of the coupon (be sure to copy the vaccination ticket number)*1
A copy of the vaccination certificate or vaccination record (a copy of the vaccination certificate is not required if it is included in the copy of the coupon)
Self-addressed envelope (be sure to affix a stamp and include your return address and name)
Copy of identity verification documents that can confirm the return address (copy of my number card, driver's license, various health insurance cards, etc.) *2
If you do not have a coupon due to loss, etc., or if the sticker on the vaccination ticket number is peeled off, please bring a document that can confirm your My Number (personal number card, notification card, copy of your resident card with your My Number, etc.). Please submit.
If you do not have any of these, please submit a copy of the document that shows the address registered as a resident at the time of vaccination (if you have moved, a copy of your resident card that shows your previous address, etc.).
If you enclose a copy of your health insurance card as an identification document, please black out the symbol/number and insurance number.
[Documents that may be required]
If your passport contains your maiden name, another name, or another name, a copy of your identity verification documents (copy of your My Number card, driver's license, family register, resident card, etc., with your maiden name written together)
If the request is made by an agent, a power of attorney signed by the principal
About a self-addressed envelope (with a self-addressed stamp attached)
In principle, the return address will be the address of the applicant.
There is no specification of envelope size.
Please check the website of Japan Post Co., Ltd. for details on postage.
If you do not have enough stamps, you will not be able to send the letter.
If you wish to have it sent by express, please affix stamps for express delivery and write "express" in red on the envelope.
Contact information
Inquiries about vaccination certificates
Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare Covid-19 Vaccine Call Center
Phone number: 0120-761-770 (toll-free)
Reception hours: 9:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. (also available on Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays)
Inquiries about vaccination certificate issuance procedures
Nagoya Novel Coronavirus Vaccine Call Center
Phone number: 050-3135-2252
Reception hours: 9:00 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. (weekdays only)
For details, please see the official website of Nagoya City.
