What do you want to do today?
I want the necessary documents to extend my visa.
I want the necessary documents for procedures to bring my family to Japan.
I want to pay my taxes.
I need proof of income.
I want to talk about paying taxes.
I want a tax certificate.
If you submit it to the Immigration Bureau, you need both a proof of income and a proof of tax payment.
If you are exempt from tax, you need a tax exemption certificate.
Do you have the documents you received from the Immigration Bureau?
Whose certificate do you need?
Please look at this sample and fill in the application form.
Can you talk with your family and friends who can speak Japanese on the phone now?
Please come to this window again with someone who understands Japanese.
I will connect the videophone call now.
You need to go to 0 0 City Tax Office (0 0 Branch Office).
What is your relationship with this person?
If someone other than the person himself comes to the window, a letter of proxy is required.
Which year's certificate do you need?
Example: The 2017 Income Report proves income for the year 2016.
Can I issue the certificate for the latest fiscal year?
How many tickets do you need?
Please show me your ID.
You can't go through the procedure without your identification paper.
Where did you live on January 1st of this year?
Please obtain your certificate at 0 0.
If you lived outside Japan on January 1st of this year, the certificate cannot be issued.
Were you working in AD 0 0?
Do you have anything that shows the annual income of the person who needs a certificate?
(Withholding Record, Salary Statement, etc.)
Do you have any other documents?
Please fill out this form.
Your income is written.
The municipal tax and prefectural inhabitants tax is 0 yen.
You are behind in your tax payment.
If you pay the unpaid tax now, we can issue a certificate of tax payment immediately.
Will you pay the tax immediately?
After you pay the tax at the bank counter, please come back to this counter again with the receipt.
After you pay the tax at the general affairs section, please come back to this window again with the receipt.
After you pay the tax at the counter number 0 on the zeroth floor, please come back to this counter again with the receipt.
May I see your receipt?
Since the municipal tax and prefectural inhabitants tax is 0 yen, we can't issue a tax certificate.
If the "Unpaid Amount" is the same as the "Amount Not Yet Due," it is not considered delinquent.
Your municipal tax and prefectural inhabitants tax are deducted from your salary and paid to Nagoya city by the company you work for.
I paid this tax.
Please pay the fee.
The procedure is over.
Mandator
Address
Name
Phone Number
Seal of the person (the person who wants a certificate)
Person (person who wants a certificate)
Please write your address, name and phone number.
Terms of Reference
Please write down the name and number of certificates you need.
Agent
People who come to the counter
Whose certificate do you need?
People who came to the counter
Spouse (wife or husband)
Parent
Child
Application for support
Pension application
Public housing (income declaration)
Loans (borrowing of funds)
Receiving child allowance
Submitted by the Immigration
School Expense Subsidy Application
Application for High School Enrollment Support Fund / Private High School Tuition Reduction
Scholarship Application
Application for Encouragement of Enrollment in Special Needs Education / Encouragement of Enrollment in Private Kindergartens
Specific medical expenses application
Visa application
Bidding
Submission to public offices (other than bidding)
Guarantor
License application for liquor sales business
Please write the name of the family you are supporting.
Relationship
Please write your life situation.
I'm a dependent of someone.
A person who supports you
Student
School Name
During medical treatment
Out of work
Please write down the name of the person who needs the certificate.
Please write the address of the person who needs the proof.
Please write your date of birth.
Please write down your name.
Please write down your address.
Please write down your phone number.
Application for Tuition Fee Exemption for Universities and Other Schools
Application for approval of application of Payment When High Medical Treatment Costs Are Incurred and limit amount
I will give you the 0 0 certificate.
