Guardian
Nagoya City Board of Education
Notice of School Expense Subsidy Continuation Procedures
(from September 2020 to August 2021)
The benefit period for those who are currently receiving the school expense subsidy is until August 2020.
If you wish to continue to receive financial assistance from September 2020 to August 2021, please submit the attached "Application for Continuation of Financial Assistance for School Expenses" to the school your child is going to.
Deadline for submission
Submit to school by Wednesday, June 10
If you cannot submit it by Wednesday, June 10, please contact the school to submit it at a later date.
Only students who submit complete documents to the school by Thursday, September 24 are eligible for continued recognition.
If there is a delay or deficiency in submission of documents, it will not be approved again on September 1st.
Please confirm and submit it.
[Precautions]
If you have 2 or more children who want assistance, please apply for each of them.
The certification will be based on the content of the application this time.
If your household situation changes after you apply (change of guardian, remarriage, move, living with grandparents, etc.), please contact the school immediately.
If, at a later date, the submitted documents are found to contain amendments or errors and no longer meet the accreditation requirements, the accreditation may be cancelled.
If there is any doubt about the contents of the application, we may confirm the household situation and income ex officio.
Details of payment (scheduled as of April 2020)
September to December 2020
Payment around October 26
January to March 2021
Payment around January 25
April to August 2021
Payment around June 1
Paying for necessary school supplies, etc.
First year of elementary school
4,320 yen
3,240 yen
[Please see the column for new school year]
2-6 years of elementary school
5,040 yen
3,780 yen
6,680 yen
1st year of junior high school
8,200 yen
6,150 yen
10,690 yen
Second and third year junior high school
9,000 yen
6,750 yen
11,560 yen
Enrollment reserve
Grade 6
60,000 yen
Payment around February 25
Graduation album fees, etc.
6th graders, 3rd graders
Provided to students who receive school expense subsidies and purchase yearbooks, etc. as of March 1.
Actual cost
School meals expenses
All grades
The head of the school pays to the food service organization (not directly to the parents).
Middle schools that offer school lunches pay parents the amount of money they actually eat and drink.
Payment is made around June 1 for April, around March 31 for March, and around the 25th of the following month for other months.
Actual cost
Field activity expenses
Elementary 5 / Junior high 2
At the time of implementation, it is paid to students who received school expense subsidies and participated in outdoor activities.
After payment (usually 2 to 3 months)
Actual cost
Senior grade excursions expense
6th graders, 3rd graders
Provided to students who have received school expense subsidies at the time of implementation and participated in school trips.
After payment (usually 2 to 3 months)
Actual cost
Travel expenses to school
Pay actual expenses to students who commute by public transportation to schools with a commuting distance of 4 km or more for elementary schools and 6 km or more for junior high schools as a special educational consideration (regardless of commuting distance for special needs classes).
Payment months are July, October and January.
School sickness medical expenses
The head of the school pays medical institutions the cost of treatment for school illnesses treated under the school's instructions (not directly paid to the parents).
School Life Management and Guidance Sheet Expenses
All grades
Payment of a document fee for a school life management guidance sheet prepared by a doctor regarding food allergies and heart and kidney related diseases.
Receipt from medical institution required
Payment is made around June 25 for April and May, and around the 25th of the following month for other months.
Actual expenses (up to 3,000 yen)
* For households receiving livelihood protection, only senior grade excursions expense and medical expenses for school sickness are included in the payment items of school expense assistance.
Other items are eligible for livelihood protection and are paid by the Social Welfare Office (Department of Livelihood and Child Affairs, Ward Office).
* School sickness refers to trachoma, conjunctivitis, otitis media, chronic sinusitis, cavities, adenoids, parasitic diseases, and certain skin diseases.
When receiving treatment, be sure to receive a "treatment statement" from the school in advance and bring it to the medical institution.
In addition, if you have a medical treatment coupon for children or a Certificate for Single-Parent Family Medical Care Support, they will be given priority.
* The payment period may be slightly different.
Who is eligible for the school expense subsidy and required documents
If you sign your name and seal in the "consent" column of the application form for continued enrollment assistance, you do not need the attached documents (Child Rearing Allowance Certificate, municipal tax, prefectural inhabitants tax certificate, etc.) because the board of education will check the necessary information for continued approval.
However, if you have moved to Nagoya city after January 2, 2020 or if you have not declared your income, and if you cannot obtain the necessary information as a result of checking at the board of education, you will be required to submit the necessary documents separately.
If there is a person with a different address who is included in the household due to work away from home, the board of education cannot obtain necessary information, so you need to submit the necessary documents.
If you do not sign or seal the consent form, please attach the necessary documents for each category below.
Application items
Documents to be attached (when the name and seal are not affixed to the "consent form", etc.)
Where the certificate was issued
1
Person requiring public assistance as prescribed in the Public Assistance Act
Not required
2
Those whose livelihood protection has been suspended or abolished since April 2, 2019.
Not required (principle)
* If the system is abolished due to a change of household (remarriage, etc.), it is not applicable.
3
Those who have received child support allowance
Child Rearing Allowance Certificate
* A copy of the page with the seal of the director of the social welfare office is required.
* The benefit period must be [after November 2019].
* Child Allowance, Single-Parent Household Allowance, Aichi Prefectural Orphan Allowance and Special Child Support Allowance are not applicable.
Ward Office, division, Ward
Local Residents Welfare Division
(Social Welfare Offices)
4
Those who are in financial trouble
Certificate of Municipal Tax and Prefectural Inhabitants Tax [2020 (2019 income)] (copy is acceptable)
* All members of the household are required (except those who are dependents under the Income Tax Act and those who are high school students or younger).
A tax office at a City Tax Office, branch office, ward office, or branch office
You can apply for this item if the total income of all members of the household in 2019 is less than or equal to the lower income threshold.
Number of household members
Two person household
Three person household
Four person household
Five person household
Six person household
Income threshold
2.469 million yen
2.769 million yen
3.146 million yen
3.726 million yen
4.097 million yen
(Standard Revenue)
(3.76 million yen)
(4.14 million yen)
(4.6 million yen)
(5.33 million yen)
(5.79 million yen)
For households of seven or more people, the income threshold for a six person household is increased by 489000 yen for each additional person.
The income standard amount on the upper row is the approval standard.
The amount in parentheses below is an estimate of the income of a salaried employee.
If the income of a person who is making a living has decreased sharply due to unavoidable reasons such as injury, illness, unemployment (dismissal, bankruptcy), or if the income has decreased sharply due to the effects of the novel coronavirus infection, consideration may be given even if the income exceeds the base amount.
Please consult with the school.
(Retirement age and voluntary retirement are not applicable.)
Note 1: The term "household" in the School Expense Subsidy refers to all people living in the same house.
People who live in the same house are considered to be in the same household even if their grandparents are living separately or have resident records.
People who do not live in the same house due to work away from home, but maintain the livelihood of the household are also included in the same household.
Please write all the members of the same household in the column of household status on the application form.
Note 2: All members of the household must be applicable to the same item (except for application item 3).
Other
Approval and payment in April-August 2021 is based on the approval of the 2021 budget.
Please note that depending on the situation, it may not be approved or paid as per this guidance.
The period of assistance for children who graduate from junior high school this year is until March 2021.
If there is an unpaid amount of the money collected by the school that is subject to the school expense subsidy, you may pay it to the school even if you have applied for the account transfer.
Based on the consent, if the board of education views and confirms the information necessary for the examination of the eligibility for the school expense subsidy (Basic Resident Register Information, Public Assistance Information, Child Rearing Allowance Information, Income Information) and there is a doubt about the contents of the application, the situation may be confirmed.
* If you have any questions, please contact the Student Affairs Division of the Nagoya City Board of Education (TEL: 972 - 3217; FAX: 972 - 4175) or the school to which you are commuting.
