Special Needs Education Enrollment Promotion Fund for 2020
Students with disabilities who attend special needs classes at Nagoya-shi elementary and junior high schools can use the "Special Needs Education Enrollment Promotion Fund," which provides paying for necessary school supplies and school meals expenses according to household income.
Audience
Those who fall under any of the following 1 to 3.
Students in special needs classes
Students of Teaching School for Handicapped Students (those who do not fall under 3.)
Only transportation expenses (transportation fees) will be provided.)
* Regular attendance at prefectural special support schools is also eligible.
Students in regular classes (including Teaching School for Handicapped Students) who fall under the level of disability prescribed in Article 22-3 of the Order for Enforcement of the School Education Act. (For details, see the reverse.)
Expenses covered by the subsidy
Partition
Elementary school
Junior high school
School meals expenses
Actual Cost x 1/2
Actual Cost x 1/2
Transportation expenses (transportation fees)
Actual Cost (Note 1)
Actual Cost (Note 1)
Travel expenses for exchange learning
Actual Cost (Note 1)
Actual Cost (Note 1)
Senior grade excursions expense
Actual Cost x 1/2 (up to 10,790 yen)
Actual Cost x 1/2 (up to 28,860 yen)
Extracurricular Activity Expenses (with accommodation)
Actual Cost x 1/2 (up to 3,422 yen)
Actual Cost x 1/2 (up to 3,540 yen)
Extracurricular Activity Expenses (without accommodation)
800 yen
1,155 yen
Expenses for purchasing school supplies
Actual Cost x 1/2 (Note 2) (Maximum 5,820 yen)
Actual Cost x 1/2 (Note 2) (Maximum 11,370 yen)
Expenses for purchasing school and school supplies for new students (first year students only)
Actual Cost x 1/2 (Note 2) (Maximum 25,555 yen) (Note 3)
Actual Cost x 1/2 (Note 2) (Maximum 28,990 yen) (Note 3)
(Note 1) For (2) and (3), if the accreditation stage is Stage III, "actual expenses x 1 / 2" shall apply.
(Note 2) For items (7) and (8), payment will be made according to the purchase performance, and a receipt (address, product name, amount) will be required.
(⑦ refers to those purchased between February 2020 and January 2021, and ⑧ refers to those purchased before April 2020.)
However, if the student purchases school supplies and school supplies necessary for the enrollment in (h) after April due to the temporary suspension of operations due to the novel coronavirus, receipts by the end of June will be applicable.)
(Note 3) The upper limit has increased since last fiscal year.
Accreditation criteria and support costs
The approval level is decided based on the ratio of the household income amount and the standard livelihood protection demand amount, and the expenses and amount of subsidy differ depending on the approval level.
The certification level is determined annually.
Certification Phase
Basis of calculation
Expenses covered by the subsidy
I
Income is less than 1.5 times demand
II
The amount of income is 1.5 times or more and less than 2.5 times the amount of demand
① ～ ⑧
III
Income is more than 2.5 times demand.
②, ③
Standards for Stage I and II (income less than 2.5 times the standard livelihood protection demand)
About the following amount of income.
Even if the number of people in a household is the same, the amount of income varies depending on the age structure.
Number of household members
Two person household
Three person household
Four person household
Five person household
Six person household
Household income
4.634 million yen
6.044 million yen
7.119 million yen
7.96 million yen
9.219 million yen
(Annual Income of Employment Income Earners)
(7.292 million yen)
(9.055 million yen)
(10.375 million yen)
(11.364 million yen)
(12.845 million yen)
In addition to the "Special Needs Education Enrollment Incentive Fund", there is a "School Expense Subsidy" program that provides financial support for school lunch fees and paying for necessary school supplies for those who are in financial trouble.
You can't receive the same payment items of the School Expense Subsidy and the Special Needs Education Enrollment Promotion Fund at the same time.
The school expense subsidy is more generous, so I recommend that those who are eligible for the school expense subsidy choose the school expense subsidy.
However, you need to apply for the transportation expenses for exchange study because they are paid only by the special needs education enrollment promotion allowance.
Criteria, etc. for students in regular classes (including Teaching School for Handicapped Students) who fall under the degree of disability prescribed in Article 22-3 of the Order for Enforcement of the School Education Act (3) of the subject person on the front)
Segment
Degree of disability (criteria pursuant to Article 22-3 of the Order for Enforcement of the School Education Act)
Judgment Method
Required documents
Visually impaired person
Of those whose corrected visual acuity in both eyes is approximately less than 0.3 or whose visual impairment other than visual acuity is severe, those whose visual recognition of ordinary letters, figures, etc. is impossible or extremely difficult * even with the use of a magnifying glass, etc.
* Considerable time is required for visual recognition of ordinary characters, figures, etc., special support and consideration are required for guidance in all subjects, etc., and special guidance to improve and overcome disabilities is systematically and continuously required.
A person with a physical disability certificate of Grade 2 or higher, or a person with a physical disability certificate of Grade 3 to 6, who has been diagnosed by a doctor as meeting the following criteria:
Copy of physical disability certificate
Medical certificate issued by a doctor (in the form designated by Nagoya City)
(For (2), only those with a physical disability certificate of Grade 3 to 6 are required.)
Deaf person
Of those whose hearing level in both ears is approximately 60 decibels or more, those whose ordinary speaking is impossible or extremely difficult to understand even with a hearing aid or artificial inner ear, etc.
Intellectual disability
Those who have intellectual development and have difficulty in communicating with others and frequently need assistance in their daily lives.
Of those whose degree of intellectual development is less than 1, those whose adjustment to social life is extremely difficult
The medical treatment and education judgment in the Welfare Handbook is A.
Copy of Welfare Record Book
Physically disabled person
The condition of Limb / Trunk Dysfunction is such that even with the use of prosthetic devices, it is impossible or difficult to perform basic movements such as walking *, eating, putting on and taking off clothes, excretion, etc., or drawing for learning activities.
Those whose condition of Limb / Trunk Dysfunction does not reach level 1 and who require constant medical observation and guidance (requiring constant medical observation within a specified period and receiving guidance and training on each movement and movement in daily life from getting up to going to bed)
* Walking does not include movement in a wheelchair.
A person with a physical disability certificate of Grade 2 or higher, or a person with a physical disability certificate of Grade 3 to 6, who has been diagnosed by a doctor as meeting the following criteria:
Copy of physical disability certificate
Medical certificate issued by a doctor (in the form designated by Nagoya City)
(For (2), only those with a physical disability certificate of Grade 3 to 6 are required.)
Sickly person
A chronic respiratory disease, renal disease, neurologic disease, malignant neoplasm, or other disease that continues to require medical care * 1 or livelihood regulation * 2.
Those whose Physical Weakness condition continues and who require lifestyle restrictions * 2
* 1 Diagnosis and treatment mainly by a doctor.
This does not include daily medication or self-injection.
* 2 The disease significantly limits exercise, daily activities (walking, bathing, reading, learning, etc.), and the quality and quantity of meals.
A person diagnosed by a doctor as meeting the following criteria
Medical certificate issued by a doctor (in the form designated by Nagoya City)
If a person has more than one disability, the person with the most severe disability will be judged.
[Procedures]
As for students in special needs classes and Teaching School for Handicapped Students, we will inform you about the application around early June.
As for other students, please ask the school if you want to receive it.
Also, if you need a doctor's medical certificate, please receive the necessary documents at school, bring them to the medical institution, and ask them to make a medical certificate.
For details of the system, please contact the school you are commuting to or the Educational Affairs Division of the Nagoya City Board of Education (tel: 972-3217).
Nagoya City Board of Education R2.5
