For single-parent families
Trouble Consultation Form
Do you have any problems at work, raising children or living?
There are various counselors at the ward office and branch offices to think together and solve your problems and worries.
No matter how trivial it is, it doesn't matter.
Why don't you talk to the counselor first?
If necessary, we can cooperate with other consultation services.
Please tell me about your problem or what you want to consult.
Please submit this consultation form together with the enclosed Current Status Notice to the ward office or branch office.
Please note that the contents of the consultation form will not be used as materials for determining payment of the child support allowance, etc.
I'll keep it a secret.
Do you have any of the following problems or things you want to consult?
Place a 0 in parentheses for all applicable fields (multiple answers allowed).
If you don't have any particular problems, please add 0 to "2 don't want" in Q4.
Matters related to work and income
I want to find a job.
I want to work, but I don't have the energy to look for it.
I'm working now, but I want to work on better terms.
Struggling with workplace relationships
Want to be qualified
Other (please specify)
Matters related to health and life
Physical condition is not good
There is a time when it is mentally unstable
Unable to do housework, etc.
Be troubled with family relations
Be troubled with the residence
I want to review my household finances.
Have trouble obtaining child support
It is troubled in repayment of debt
Trouble with language and communication
Other (please specify)
Matters relating to children
Have concerns about raising children
Feeling burden in raising children
The child has a chronic disease or disability and feels insecure.
Not able to keep up with school work
It does not want to go to the school
Tend to be withdrawn
There is not much conversation between parent and child and they do not understand the feelings of the child.
Feeling insecure about their children's future
Have trouble with tuition fees
Other (please specify)
At the ward office or branch office, we are thinking about what we can do together to solve your problems or worries.
Would you like to consult with a counselor?
Desire
2. Not requested (reason:)
* If you have already consulted with another institution, please tell me where to consult.
(Contact:)
<<Please enter your contact information>>
Furigana
Name
Telephone number
Time when it is easy to answer the phone such as lunch break at work
(Weekdays 10 am - 4 pm)
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, any time
: to:
* Please note that depending on what you have answered, the ward office or branch office may contact you regardless of whether you wish to do so.
* Depending on the content of your consultation, you may be able to view information related to the child support allowance or make inquiries to the relevant organizations.
Ward Office / Branch Office Entry Column
* Please do not write anything.
(Certificate Number:)
