Important News
Nagoya-shi
Guide to the Child-Rearing Household Life Support Special Benefits
We will provide new benefits to support families with small children!
Recipients
Those who fall under both (1) and (2) (* Excluding those who received benefits equivalent to Single-Parent Households)
Parents, etc. raising a child under 18 years old as of March 31, 2021 (in the case of a disabled child, under 20 years old) (* Newborns, etc. born by the end of February 2022 are also eligible.)
Those who are exempt from inhabitant tax (per capita basis) in fiscal 2021
Or
Those whose income has suddenly changed since January 1, 2021 and has become equivalent to income exempt from resident tax.
Payment
Uniform 50000 yen per child
In some cases, you don't need to apply for the payment, and in other cases, you need to apply.
Please make sure to check the payment procedure on the back.
If it is found that the same child received the payment twice, you need to get a refund.
* If you would like to know more about how to apply or if you would like to have the application form sent to you, please call:
Application Submission and Contact Information
Nagoya City Hall, in charge of "Child-rearing Household Life Support Special Benefits (for non-Child Single-Parent Households)" (Call Center)
Nagoya Higashi Post Office, 461-8799 (Dai-Fuji Building, 6 f, 35-16 Daikancho, Higashi-ku, Nagoya-shi)
Phone: 052 979 2415
FAX 052-933-1118
Hours: 9:00 - 17:30
Open every day from July 1 to September 30, including weekends and public holidays.
Procedures for payment of benefits
Recipients of Child Allowance or Special Child Rearing Allowance for April 2021 who are exempt from resident tax
You can receive the benefit without applying.
After we send out the information about the benefit, we will transfer it to the bank account that pays child allowance or special child support allowance in the middle of July (around 19th).
As of January 1, 2021, those who live in municipalities outside Nagoya are scheduled to make the transfer in late July (around July 29).
Those who are taking care of a child born between April 2, 2021 and February 28, 2022, who are newly receiving child allowance and are exempt from resident tax
You can receive the benefit without applying.
After sending the information of the benefit, we will transfer it to the bank account which pays the child allowance after the end of July.
People other than the above (for example, those raising only high school students, those whose income has changed suddenly)
You need to apply to receive the benefit.
(Application deadline: Postmarked on February 28, 2022)
Please fill out the required information on the application form and submit it along with the required documents to the address indicated on the front page.
For those who meet the requirements for the payment of benefits, we will confirm the contents of the application and transfer to the designated account.
If you would like to receive an application form, please contact the contact information listed on the front page.
(You can also download it from the Nagoya city official website.)
Eligible for benefits
Application procedures for benefits
Please submit the application documents by mail to the person in charge of the "Child-rearing Household Life Support Special Benefits (for non-Child-rearing Single-Parent Households)".
Transfer to a designated account
Based on the submitted application documents, we will confirm if you meet the requirements for the payment of the benefit, and then we will transfer the money.
Nagoya-shi
Please be careful of "bank transfer fraud" and "personal data theft" of "Child-rearing Family Life Support Special Benefits".
If there is a suspicious phone call or mail from your home or workplace to a prefecture, municipality, or the Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare (employees), please contact the nearest police station or Police Consultation Dedicated Telephone Line (#9110).
