To Parents with Children
School Attendance Guide for Foreigners
~ What are Japanese schools like? ~
[About elementary and junior high schools in Japan]
We accept foreign children for free as well as Japanese students, and guarantee them the same opportunities to receive education as Japanese.
You can go to Nagoya Municipal Elementary School or Junior High School which is determined by your place of residence.
Length of schooling at elementary and junior high schools
In Japan, children can enter elementary school from the first April after six years of age and receive six years of education.
When they graduate from elementary school, they can enter junior high school and receive 3 years of education.
In addition, many students who graduate from junior high school go on to higher education.
There are high schools, specialized training colleges (general and advanced courses), technical colleges and so on as places to go to.
Also, there are people who get a job after graduating from junior high school.
Expenses borne by parents
Tuition fees for public elementary and junior high schools are free.
In addition, textbooks for elementary and junior high schools will be distributed free of charge.
Some expenses, such as school lunch fees and paying for necessary school supplies, are borne by the parents.
School Expense Assistance
For those who are having trouble sending their children to elementary and junior high schools due to economic reasons, we have a school expense subsidy program to support school lunch fees.
Health checkup
It is held at the school he goes to every year.
For the child who went through the procedure to enter Nagoya City Elementary School next April, the School Entry Health Checkup is conducted at the elementary school from October to November before entering the school.
The elementary school you applied for will notify you of the schedule later, so please make sure to see a doctor.
[Support after enrollment]
In Nagoya city, there is a Japanese language education consultation center for those who want to consult about school or study.
If you want to know more about you want to know more about the school or if you have any trouble such as asking for an interpreter.
In addition, there are classes for learning basic Japanese (daily conversation, etc.), classes for learning Japanese necessary for subject learning, and other environments where you can learn with peace of mind.
If you want to enter these classrooms, please consult with the teacher of the school you are entering.
[Contact]
About financial aid
School Expense Assistance Section, Student Affairs Division, Board of
Phone: 052 972 3217
Enrollment Procedures
Please contact the City Office, Citizens Division or Branch Office, Citizens Section.
Learning the Japanese Language and School Life after Enrollment
Japanese Language Education Center
Address: Nagoya City Hall of Education, 3 f, 1-1-4, Izumi 1-chome, Higashi-ku, Nagoya City, 461 0001
Phone: 052 961 0418
