Information on Novel Coronavirus Vaccine Vaccination Certificates
This document will be issued to those who have received the novel coronavirus vaccine and need a document proving that they have received the in addition to the vaccination certificate due to overseas travel or other circumstances.
This vaccination certificate is limited to overseas travel for the time being.
In Japan, even if you don't have this certificate, you can confirm the fact of vaccination with the vaccination certificate.
How to apply
We only accept applications by mail.
There is no fee for the issuance of the certificate except for the postage for application and delivery.
* Please contact the call center if you are going to travel in a few days and the issuance of the certificate by mail is not enough.
Certificate Application Flow
The required documents will be mailed to "0 Application Delivery Address" below.
(Submitted required documents will not be returned.)
We will check the contents of the documents at the city hall.
The certificate will be returned from the city hall.
In principle, the certificate will be prepared and sent within about a week from the day the application form arrives. However, if there is any omission in the application form, we will issue the certificate after confirming it over the phone.
Also, it will take some days to send it by mail, so please apply well in advance.
Where to send the application
3-1-1 Sannomaru 3-chome, Naka-ku, Nagoya-shi, 460-8508
In charge of Vaccination Certificate, Novel Coronavirus Disease Control Office, Health and Welfare Bureau
Required documents
[Required Documents]
Application form (You can download it from the official website of Nagoya City)
Copy of passport (valid as of the date of travel)
Copy of coupon (please make sure to copy the Inoculation Card number) * 1
Copy of vaccination certificate or vaccination record (copy of vaccination certificate is not required as long as it is included in the copy of coupon)
Self-Addressed Return Envelope (Please be sure to attach a postage stamp and provide your return address and name)
A copy of your identity verification document that confirms your return address (copy of your My Number card, driver's license, Health Insurance Card, etc.) * 2
If there is no coupon ticket due to loss, or if the seal on the Inoculation Card number is peeled off, please submit a document that can confirm your My Number (Individual Number Card, Notification Card, Copy of Residence Certificate with My Number, etc.).
If you do not have either of these documents, please submit a copy of the document that states your address on your resident registration at the time of vaccination (if you have moved, a copy of your residence certificate, etc. that states your previous address).
When you enclose a copy of your health insurance card as an identification paper of the person, please black out the code, number and insurer number.
[Documents required in some cases]
If your passport has your maiden name, another name, or another name written on it, a copy of your identity verification document (My Number Card with your maiden name, driver's license, family register, certificate of residence, etc.) that can be used to verify your identity.
In the case of a request by an agent, a power of attorney signed by the principal
Self-addressed return postage stamp (with a self-addressed return envelope attached)
In principle, the return address is the address of the applicant.
Envelope size is not specified.
Please check the Japan Post Co., Ltd. website for details on postage rates.
If the postage stamp is not enough, we can't send it, so please don't forget to attach it.
If you want express delivery, attach the postage stamp for express delivery and write express delivery in red on it.
Contact Information
Questions about vaccination certificates
Novel Coronavirus Vaccine Call Center, Ministry of
Telephone: 0120 761 770 (toll-free)
Reception hours: 9 am to 9 pm (Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays are also available)
Inquiries regarding the issuance of vaccination certificates
Nagoya novel coronavirus vaccine call center
Phone: 050 3135 2252
Hours: 9 am to 5:30 pm (weekdays only)
Please see the details on the official website of Nagoya City.
